

"And there came a day, a day unlike any other, when Earth's mightiest heroes and heroines found themselves united against a common threat. On that day, the Avengers were born--to fight the foes no single superhero could withstand! Through the years, their roster has prospered, changing many times, but their glory has never been denied! Heed the call, then--for now, the Avengers Assemble!"

[BURNING BLUE FLAMES. A smoky cube shape emerges - THE TESSERACT. Filling the screen with BLACKNESS.]

CUT TO: EXT. THRONE ROOM, SPACE ­ NIGHT[Kneeling behind a THRONE, a clothed, armored figure known as THE OTHER.]

THE OTHER: The tesseract has awakened. It is on a little world. A human world. They would wield its power,... [he holds out the scepter]

Loki: [Coming out from the shadows, taking the staff]

THE OTHER: But our ally knows its workings as they never will. He is ready to lead. And our force, our Chitauri, will follow.

[thousands of Chitauri are awaiting orders]

THE OTHER: The world will be his. The universe yours. And the humans, what can they do but burn?

[Cut to a SHIELD facility at night. They are evacuating by helicopter and vehicle, and one helicopter lands, dropping off Maria Hill and Nick Fury while Agent Phil Coulson is awaiting them.]

NICK FURY: How bad is it?

AGENT PHIL COULSON: That's the problem sir. We don't know.

[They enter the facility, passing fleeing technicians, taking only the essentials]

COULSON: Dr. Selvig read an energy surge from the Tesseract four hours ago.

FURY: NASA didn't authorise Selvig to test phase.

COULSON: He wasn't testing it, he wasn't even in the room. Spontaneous advancement.

AGENT MARIA HILL: It just turned itself on?

FURY: What are the energy levels

COULSON: Climbing. When Selvig couldn't shut it down, we ordered evac.

FURY: How long to get everyone out?

COULSON: Campus should be clear in the next half hour.

FURY: Do better. 

[They continue walking down deeper into the facility]

HILL: Sir, evacuation may be futile.

FURY: We should tell them to go back to sleep?

HILL: If we can't control the Tesseract's energy, there may not be a minimum safe distance.

FURY: I need you to make sure Phase 2 prototypes are shipped out.

HILL: Sir, is that really a priority right now?

FURY: Until such a time as the world ends, we will act as though it intends to spin on. Clear out the tech below. Every peice of Phase 2 on a truck and gone.

HILL: Yes sir. [To agents nearby.] With me.

[Nick fury and Agent Phil Coulson enter the radiation facility housing the Tesseract, the area cluttered with machines and people leaving.]

FURY: Talk to me doctor.

[Dr. Erik Selvig appears from behind a CMS machine, concerned. The Tesseract is glowing unusually birghter and a flare of blue shoots out from it, hitting things at random.]

Dr. ERIK SELVIG: Director.

FURY: Is there anything we know for certain?

SELVIG: The Tesseract is misbehaving.

FURY: Is that supposed to be funny?

SELVIG: No, it's not funny at all. The Tesseract is not only active, she's... misbehaving.

FURY: How soon until you pull the plug?

SELVIG:  She's an energy source. If we turn off the power, she turns it back on. If she reaches peak level...

FURY: We've prepared for this doctor. Harnessing energy from space.

SELVIG: We don't have the harness. Our calculations are far from complete. Now she's throwing off interference, radiation. Nothing harmful, low levels of gamma radiation.

FURY: That can be harmful. Where's Barton?

SELVIG: The Hawk? Up in his nest, as usual

[We cut to Clint Barton, dressed in black tactical gear, up on the railings watching them below. Fury calls Barton on his earpiece.]

FURY: Agent Barton, report.

[Barton rappels down from the catwalk, and walks up to Fury. They both walk around the bottom of the facility in a discreet manner.]

FURY: I gave you this detail so you could keep a close eye on things.

CLINT BARTON: Well, I see better from a distance.

FURY:  Are you seeing anything that might set this thing off?

NASA SCIENCETIST: [To Dr. Erik Selvig] Doctor, it's spiking again.

CLINT: No one's come or gone. It's oven is clean. No contancts, no I.M.'s. If there was any tampering, sir, it wasn't at this end.

FURY: At this end?

CLINT: Yeah, the cube is a doorway to the other end of space, right? The doors open from both sides.

[Dr. Erik Selvig types on his keyboard and the monitor flashes. Suddenly, the Tesseract thunders and shakes the entire facility. Both Agent Coulson nearby, and Maria Hill topside, feel the tremors. The cube glows brighter and emits a ring of light, and builds like a beam, similar to the Bifrost bridge. The power hits the edge of the platform, and begins to form a vortex, which becomes a portal. Space appears through the portal, and a gust of blue energy knocks people back. The cloud shoots to the ceiling, and the portal on the platform opens up as Loki steps through. The portal vanishes, and Loki grins at everyone, holding his spear. He frowns as he sees them looking at him.]

FURY: Sir please put down the spear.

[Loki responds with firing a blast of blue energy from his spear, while Barton narrowly tackles Fury out of the way. Everyone shoots at Loki, but the bullets deflect off of him. Loki immediately takes down everyone shooting at him easily, with knives and energy blasts from his sceptre. He pauses, grinning, and looks to who will attack him next. Barton attempts to attack him, but Loki grabs his wrist, disarming him.]

LOKI: You have heart.

[Loki places the tip of the spear against Barton's chest. Barton's eye glow black, and he stops resisting. Loki begins controlling other agents around the room. Fury sneak up, grabs the Tesseract, and places it in a briefcase, trying to sneak out.]

LOKI: Please don't. I still need that.

FURY: [ turning to face Loki ] This doesn't have to get any messier.

LOKI: Of course it does. I've come too far for anything else. I am Loki of Asgard, and I am burdened with glorious purpose.

SELVIG: Loki? Brother of Thor?

FURY: We have no quarrel with your people.

LOKI: An ant had no quarrel with a boot.

FURY: You planning to step on us?

LOKI: I come with glad tidings, of a world made free.

FURY: Free from what?

LOKI: Freedom. Freedom is life's great lie. Once you accept that, in your heart...[Like a gunslinger, Loki turns to face Selvig who's standing behind him and places his spear against Selvig's heart. Selvig's eyes glow black.]

LOKI: You will know peace.

FURY: Yeah, you say peace, I kind of think you mean the other thing.

[From the vacuum chamber ceiling, the Tesseract's energy cloud rapidly builds into what may be an implosion.]

CLINT: Sir, Director Fury is stalling. This place is about to blow. Drop a hundred feet of rock on us. He means to bury us. 

FURY: Like the Pharaohs of Odin.

SELVIG: He's right. The portal is collapsing in on itself. You got maybe two minutes before this goes critical.

LOKI: Well then. 

[Loki looks to Barton, who without hesitation shoots Fury, who falls to the ground. Barton grabs the case containing the Tesseract and leaves the lab with Loki, Selvig, and the other controlled SHIELD personnel.]

[The controlled SHEILD personnel are gathering weapons and getting ready to leave the facility. Agent Hill watches in confusion.]

CLINT: [Pointing to Loki and his team] Need these vehicles.

HILL: Who's that?

CLINT: He didn't tell me.

[Agent Hill eyes them suspiciously as they get into a truck and begin to drive away.]

FURY: [grabbing a walkie talkie] Hill, do you copy?

[Loki and his crew look back at Agent Hill.]

[Back at the lab, Fury is sitting up, pulling the bullet out, and breathing hard.]

FURY: Barton is...

[Maria turns around and shoots Barton, who is already shooting at her, and they drive away while she takes cover, still firing at them.]

FURY: [Running out of the lab, holding his side.] He's got the Tesseract! Track it down!

[The energy discharge from the Tesseract is building up on the ceiling, rumbling and growing recklessly, destroying structures and cracking the walls.]

[Maria Hill jumps into a Jeep and takes chase on Loki and crew. Several other trucks begin to attack Loki's truck as well, and Loki releases a blast of energy, obliterating SHEILD trucks and causing a blockage in the tunnel. Agent Hill is forced to keep distance on her pursuit.]

[Down below, Fury is racing against the clock as pipes burst around him. The walls are cracking, and the facility is suffering an internal earthquake.]

[Agent Coulson is grabbing cases, and trips down the stairs while the ground shudders. Others with him drop cases full of information and equipment.]

COULSON: No! Leave it!

[They all leave the cases behind and leave the lab running.]

[Barton and Agent Hill are caught in a truck race, where she pulls in front of him to try and block him. He responds with firing at her at close range, which causes Agent Hill to shoot out her own windshield to try and hit him.]

[Agent Coulson and his group take a Jeep and evacuate as well.]

COULSON: [on a walkie talkie] You're clear, sir! You need to go!

[Fury runs across the tarmac to a helicopter. The ground gives way seconds after the helicopter leaves the ground, falling into a sinkhole.]

[Still racing down the tunnel, Agent Hill and Barton are locked in combat. A blast wave from the Tesseract causes the tunnel to collapse partially. One of Loki's trucks makes it out, but Maria's truck is stuck.]

[The Tesseract's energy cloud now shrinks into a small ball of white light, hovering in the air. In a flash of blue light, the facility is consumed along with its surroundings. Fury watches from below as a rapid build up into an implosion.]

[Several miles away, Agent Coulson's van jolts from the blastwave on the horizon behind them.]

[The entire facility implodes with terrifying magnitude, and the implosion rocks the ground.]

[Maria Hill is stuck, her jeep behind as the full force of the blast tears down on the tunnel, covering herself by being inside of the jeep, light from the night spilling in close by.]

[Barton's truck drives away, but Fury's helicopter hovers over it, and Fury opens fire with his pistol. Loki, in a fit of rage, fires an energy blast at the helicopter. The helicopter is skimmed my the blast, but catches fire. He jumps out of the flaming helicopter seconds before it hits the ground and shreds itself into debris. Fury stands back up, dazed, and shoots at Loki, but they're too far away.]

COULSON: [over a walkie talkie] Director? Director Fury, do you copy?

FURY: The tesseract is with the hostile force. I have men down. Hill?

HILL: [climbing out of the wreckage of her jeep] A lot of men still under, don't know how many survivors.

[From the ground, Fury surveys the wreckage.]

FURY: Sound the general call. I want every living soul not working rescue looking for that briefcase.

HILL: [using a walkie talkie] Roger that.

FURY: Coulson, get back to base. This is a Level Seven. As of right now, we are at war.

COULSON: What do we do?

[Nick Fury looks up, a thought on his mind.]

[The scene is is Russia. There is a building, a warehouse, next to some unfinished railroad tracks under construction. The building is only occupied by Georgi Luchkov, a Russian general, and two thugs, with a prisoner amongst them, tied to a chair. The taller thug is in the middle of hitting the spy, a red headed Russian woman in a black tank top. They have a conversation in Russian.]

GENERAL LUCHKOV: [in Russian] This is not how I wanted the evening to go.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: I know how you wanted this evening to go. Believe me, this is better.

LUCHKOV: I'd like to know why they sent you to carry out a carrier, a stained glass and other random items.

[The taller thug pushes her chair back, tilting it over the edge of a few story drop, and Natasha hides her fear.]

NATASHA: I thought General Solohob was in charge of the export business.

LUCHKOV: Solohob? Your reputation is quite a progression. The famous Black Widow. Nothing but a pretty face.

NATASHA: You really think I'm pretty?

[Luchkov walks over to a table filled with tools of torture and interrogation, picking up a pair of pliers. The tall thug next to her forces her jaw open.]

LUCHKOV: We do not need the Lermontov to transfer the tanks. Tell him, well... [In english] You may have to write it down.

[A phone rings, and the weasely thug looks to his phone in confusion. He picks it up.]

WEASELY THUG: Ya? [He looks to Luchkov.] It's for you. 

[Luchkov takes the phone, annoyed and angry.]

LUCHKOV: Who the hell is...

COULSON: You're at 114 Solenski Plaza, 3rd floor. We have an F22 exactly 8 miles out. Put the woman on the phone or I will blow up the block before you can make the lobby.

[Luchkov places the cell phone against Natasha's ear seeing how she's tied to a chair with her hands tied behind her back.]

COULSON: We need you to come in.

NATASHA: Are you kidding? I'm working!

COULSON: This takes precedence.

NATASHA: I'm in the middle of an interrogation and this moron is giving me everything.

LUCHKOV: [Confused] I don't give everything. 

NATASHA: [Frowning at Luchkov] Look, you can't pull me out of this right now.

COULSON: Natasha. Barton's been compromised.

NATASHA: [After a beat] Let me put you on hold.

[Natasha nods to Luchkov. When he grabs the phone, she hits him with her leg and headbuts him. She stands, still tied to the chair, and kickboxes the tall thug in the face. She rolls over to the weasely thug, trips him, and stomps on his foot when he tries to pin her, then she knocks him out with a headbut. Coulson waits calmly, listening to her take three men down with her arms literally tied behind her back. She flips, breaking the chair on weasely thugs' ribcage, and looks to the tall thug, standing up. She kicks him too, chocking him out cold. She then wraps Luchkov's legs with a chain and pushes him down the hole he was threatening to drop her down. He hangs there, in pain, and she grabs her shoes and the phone.]

NATASHA: Where's Barton now?

COULSON: We don't know.

NATASHA: But he's alive.

COULSON: We think so. I'll brief you on everything when you get back. But first, we need you to talk to the big guy.

NATASHA: Coulson, you know that Stark only trusts me about as far as he can throw me. 

COULSON: No, I've got Stark. You get the big guy.

NATASHA: [pausing and hanging up the phone.] Bozhe moi. [Russian translation for My God]

[At night, a slum in India it attacked by a sickness. A little girl runs into the middle of a makeshift hospital in someone's home, pushing through the crowd frantically. She runs up the steps inside to greet the only doctor, Bruce Banner. They begin speaking in Hindu.]

ATTENDING WOMAN: What are you doing here?! Get out! You shouldn't be here. 

LITTLE GIRL: I have to see the doctor. It's my father.

BRUCE: Calm down. What's wrong?

LITTLE GIRL: My father... [she looks to the other sick people, laying down and moaning in pain.]

BRUCE: Is he like them?

[The little girl holds out money, crumpled and looking desperate.]

LITTLE GIRL: [In English] Please. 

[Banner and the little girl run quickly to the edge of town. She leads him quickly through narrow passageways, and is proving too fast to keep up with. Banner spots a nice car, and looks around, worried. He runs into the girls house, when she leaves through a window, untraceable.]

BRUCE: Should have gotten paid up front, Banner.

NATASHA: [Entering the room behind him, making Banner turn around.] You know, for a man who's supposed to be avoiding stress, you picked a hell of a place to settle. 

BRUCE: Avoiding stress isn't the secret.

NATASHA: Then, what is it? Yoga?

BANNER: You brought me to the edge of the city, smart. I uh... assume the whole place is surrounded?

NATASHA: Just you and me. 

BRUCE: And your actress buddy, is she a spy too? Do they start that young?

NATASHA: I did. 

BRUCE: Who are you?

NATASHA: Natasha Romanoff.

BRUCE: Are you here to kill me, Miss Romanoff? Because that's not gonna work out for everyone.

NATASHA: No. No. Of course not. I'm here on behalf of SHIELD.

BRUCE: SHIELD. How did they find me?

NATASHA: We never lost you, doctor. We've kept our distance, even helped keep some other interested parties off your scent.

BRUCE: Why?

NATASHA: Nick Fury seems to trust you. But now I need you to come in.

BRUCE: What if I said no?

NATASHA: I'll persuade you.

BRUCE: And what if the... other guy says no?

NATASHA: You've been more than a year without an incident. I don't think you wanna break that streak.

BRUCE: [gently pushing a cradle] I don't always get what I want.

NATASHA: Doctor, we're facing a potential global catastrophe.

BRUCE: Well, those I actively try to avoid.

NATASHA: This is the Tesseract. It has the potential energy to wipe out the planet.

[She shows him a photo of the Tesseract on her cell phone. Banner takes a closer look.]

BRUCE: What does Fury want me to do? Swallow it?

NATASHA: Well, he wants you to find it. It's been taken. It emits a gamma signature that's too weak for us to trace. There's no one that knows gamma radiation like you do. If there was, that's where I'd be.

BRUCE: So Fury isn't after the monster?

NATASHA: Not that he's told me.

BRUCE: And he tells you everything?

NATASHA: Talk to Fury, he needs you on this.

BRUCE: He needs me in a cage?

NATASHA: No one's gonna put you in a...

BRUCE: STOP LYING TO ME! [Banner slams his fists onto the table]

[Natasha grabs a gun hidden under the table, pointing it at him. Banner stays still, grinning]

BRUCE: I'm sorry, that was mean. I just wanted to see what you'd do. Why don't we do this the easy way, where you don't use that, and the other guy doesn't make a mess? Okay? Natasha...

[Natasha, still wary, doesn't lower her gun. She lowers her gun and speaks into her earpiece.]

NATASHA: [on her earpiece] Stand down. We're good here. 

[Dozens of soldiers armed to the teeth have surrounded the small house, but at her signal they back off a bit.]

BRUCE: [smiles back at Natasha] Just you and me?

[Inside a SHIELD analytical room, filled with monitors of partially silhouetted people. Fury stands in the middle, frowning. They make up the World Security Council.]

COUNCIL MEMBER 1:  This is out of line, Director. You're dealing with forces you can't control.

FURY:  You ever been in a war, Councilman? In a firefight? Did you feel an overabundance of control?

COUNCIL MEMBER 1:  You saying that this Asgard has declared war on our planet?

FURY: Not Asgard, Loki.

COUNCIL MEMBER 2:  He can't be working alone. What about the other one? His brother.

FURY:  Our intelligence says, Thor is not a hostile. But he's worlds away, we can't depend on him to help. It's up to us.

COUNCIL MEMBER 1:  Which is why you should be focusing on phase 2, it was designed for exactly...

FURY:  PHASE 2 isn't ready, our enemy is. We need a response team.

COUNCIL MEMBER 1:  The Avengers Initiative was shut down.

FURY:  This isn't about The Avengers.

COUNCIL MEMBER 1:  We're running the world's greatest covert security network and you're gonna leave the fate of human race to a handful of freaks.

FURY:  I'm not leaving anything to anyone. We need a response team. These people maybe isolated, unbalanced even, but I believe with the right push they can be exactly what we need.

COUNCIL MEMBER 2: You believe?

COUNCIL MEMBER 1: War isn't won by sentiment, Director.

FURY:  No, it's won by soldiers.

[A Brooklyn gym at night. Occupied by one man, beating a punching bag in the gym lights, alone in the floor, lost in the fight. The gym is old, as old as the man inside, Captain America, or Steve Rogers. He beats the bag harder, like physically hurting it will repress the memories.]

[FLASHBACK][Hydra base, Captain America is running through a forest, dodging mortar shells, gunfire and Tesseract energy blasts.]

STEVE:  [Echoey] There's not enough time! I gotta put her in the water!

[In the present, Steve's punches become harder and more violent.]

[in the flashback, Steve places the compass he has, featuring a picture of Peggy Carter, on the dash as the plane plummets towards the ice.]

[The present, punches become violent and aggressive.]

PEGGY CARTER: [flashback voice] You won't be alone. 

[Red Skull picked up the Tesseract, and vanishes.]

[In the present, Steve is breathing the bag with everything he has, destroying it and beating his fists.]

SHIELD SCIENCETIST: [flashback] Oh my god!

[Steve is lying on a table, half frozen, and still partially trapped in a slab of ice. Two SHIELD scientists run equipment over him, checking for his vitals. Something flickers...]

SHIELD SCIENCETIST: This guy is still alive!

[Present. Steve punched the bag, easily a hundred pounds, across the room with one swing snapping the metal chain and pummeling it back a dozen feet, sand spilling out from where he cracked the fabric. He stands up, breathing hard, and grabs another bag, resuming a more normal routine. Fury walks in.]

FURY: Trouble sleeping?

STEVE: I slept for seventy years, sir. I think I've had my fill.

FURY: Then you should be out, celebrating, seeing the world.

[Steve stops punching and walks over to the bench, unraveling the tape off his hands. He sits down.]

STEVE: I went under, the world was at war, I wake up, they say we won. They didn't say what we lost.

FURY: We've made some mistakes along the way. Some very recently.

STEVE: You here with a mission, sir?

FURY: I am. 

STEVE: Trying to get me back in the world?

FURY:  Trying to save it. [Fury hands Steve a file on the Tesseract, along with other files on HYDRA'S projects]

STEVE: Hydra's secret weapon.

FURY: Howard Stark fished that out of the ocean when he was looking for you. He thought what we think, the Tesseract could be the key to unlimited sustainable energy. That's something the world sorely needs.

STEVE: Who took it from you?

FURY: He's called Loki. He's not from around here. There's a lot we'll have to bring you up to speed on if you're in. The world has gotten even stranger than you already know.

STEVE: At this point, I doubt anything would surprise me.

FURY: Ten bucks says you're wrong. There's a debriefing package waiting for you back at your apartment.

[Steve turns and picks up a punching bag. Fury starts walking out of the gym.] 

FURY: Is there anything you can tell us about the Tesseract that we ought to know now?

STEVE: [Without missing a beat] You should have left it in the ocean.

[Out in the Atlantic Ocean, Tony Stark, in his Iron Man suit, is cutting a pipeline transport with a laser cutter coming from his hand. He then places a Stark Energy Reactor. It lights up. Iron Man rockets out of the water and flies towards Stark Tower]

TONY: You're good on this end. The rest is up to you.

PEPPER POTTS: [on the other line] You disconnected the transition lines? Are we off the grid?

TONY: Stark Tower is about to become a beacon of self-sustaining clean energy.

PEPPER: Wow. So maybe our reactor takes over, and it actually works?

[INSIDE THE SUIT -- PEPPER APPEARS ON HIS HUD MONITOR.]

TONY: I assume. Light her up. [Iron Man flies to the Stark Tower Building, the power is switched on the Stark sign lights up]

PEPPER: How does it look?

TONY: Like Christmas, but with more... me.

PEPPER Gotta go wider on the public awareness campaign. You need to do some press. I'm in DC tomorrow. I'm working on the zoning for the next three buildings.

TONY: Pepper, you're killing me. Remember the moment? Enjoy the moment.

PEPPER: Then get in here and I will. [Tony arrives at his skyscraper penthouse and is in the process of taking off his Iron Man suit through a hi-tech gauntlet of gadgets.]

JARVIS: Sir, Agent Coulson of SHIELD is on the line.

TONY: I'm not in. I'm actually out.

JARVIS: Sir, I'm afraid he's insisting.

TONY: Grow a spine, Jarvis. I got a date.

[Pepper Potts stares up at the monitors of the reactor device.]

PEPPER: Levels are holding steady... I think.

TONY: Of course they are, I was directly involved. Which brings me to my next question: how does it feel to be a genius?

PEPPER: Well, ha, I really wouldn't know now, would I?

TONY: What do you mean? All this came from you.

PEPPER: No. All this came from that. [Points to the energy in his chest plate.]

TONY: Give yourself some credit, please. Stark Tower is your baby. Give yourself... twelve percent of the credit.

PEPPER: Twelve percent?

TONY: An argument can be made for fifteen.

PEPPER: Twelve percent? For my baby?

TONY: Well, I did do all the heavy lifting. Literally, I lifted the heavy things. And sorry, but the security snafu? That was on you.

PEPPER: Oooooh.

TONY: My private elevator...

PEPPER: You mean our elevator?

TONY: Was steaming with sweaty workmen. I'm going to pay for that comment about percentages in some subtle way later, aren't I?

[Pepper pours herself and Tony a glass of champagne.]

PEPPER: Not gonna be that subtle.

TONY: I'll tell you what. Next building's gonna say 'Potts' on the tower.

PEPPER: On the lease.

TONY: Call your mom, can you bunk over?

JARVIS: Sir, the telephone. I'm afraid my protocols are being overwritten.

COULSON: Stark, we need to talk.

[Tony picks up his phone and looks into it at Coulson.]

TONY: You have reached the life model decoy of Tony Stark, please leave a message.

COULSON: This is urgent.

TONY: Then leave it urgently. [At that moment the elevator door opens and Coulson appears.] Security breach. [To Pepper] That's on you.

COULSON: Mr. Stark

PEPPER: Phil! Come in.

TONY: Phil? Uh, his first name is Agent.

PEPPER: Come on in, we're celebrating.

COULSON: I can't stay

TONY: Which is why he can't stay.

COULSON: We need you to look this over. [He holds out a file towards Tony] Soon as possible.

TONY: I don't like being handed things.

PEPPER: That's alright, 'cause I love to be handed things. So, let's trade. [She pases her glass of champagne to Coulson, takes the file from him, then takes Tony's glass of champagne while passing the file over to Tony] Thank you.

TONY: Official consulting hours are between eight and five every other Thursday.

COULSON: This isn't a consultation.

PEPPER: Is this about The Avengers? Which I...I know nothing about.

TONY: The Avengers Initiative was scrapped, I thought. And I didn't even qualify.

PEPPER: I didn't know that either.

TONY: Yeah, apparently I'm volatile, self-obsessed, don't play well with others.

PEPPER: That I did know.

COULSON: This isn't about personality profiles anymore.

TONY: Whatever. Miss Potts, got a minute? [Pepper walks over to Tony who places the files into his own databases.]

TONY: You know, I thought we were having a moment.

PEPPER: I was having twelve percent of a moment. This seems serious, Phil's pretty shaken.

TONY: How did you notice? Why is he Phil?

PEPPER: What is all of this?

TONY:  This is, uh... [Tony expands his arms and different profiles appear in holographic form floating in the air in front of Tony and Pepper.] This.

[Screens appear of Captain America in action, the Hulk roaring as he attacks the army at Culver University, and Thor fighting the Destroyer in New Mexico. Another is of Loki and the Tesseract to which Tony and Pepper look at in awe]

PEPPER:  I'm going to take the jet to DC tonight.

TONY:  Tomorrow.

PEPPER:  You've got homework. You've got a lot of homework.

TONY: Well, what if I didn't?

PEPPER:  If you didn't?

TONY:  Yeah.

PEPPER:  You mean if you finished? [Tony nods his head] Well, um...then. [She whispers something in his ear. Tony gasps. Coulson looks away in embarrassment.]

TONY: Square deal. It's the last date.

[Pepper kisses him.]

PEPPER: Work hard.

[As Pepper leaves with Agent Coulson, Tony grabs the Tesseract in holograph form, worried.]

[Inside the Quinjet, Steve is sitting down with a tablet, watching the footage of the Hulk's attack on the Army at Culver University]

PILOT: We're about forty minutes out from base, sir.

[Agent Coulson stands up from his seat and walks over to Steve.]

STEVE: So, this Doctor Banner was trying to replicate the serum that was used on me?

COULSON: A lot of people were. You were the world's first superhero. Banner thought gamma radiation might hold the key to unlocking Erskine's original formula. [The Hulk roars with fury as he slams a jeep apart.]

STEVE: Didn't really go his way, did it?

COULSON: Not so much. When he's not that thing though, guy's like a Stephen Hawking. [Steve looks confused.] He's like a smart person. I gotta say, it's an honor to meet you, officially. [Steve smiles at Coulson.] I sort of met you, I mean, I watched you while you were sleeping. [Steve looks down. He stands up, closes his laptop and walks to the side with Coulson following.] I mean, I was... I was present while you were unconscious from the ice. You know, it's really, it's just a... just a huge honor to have you on board.

STEVE: Well, I hope I'm the man for the job.

COULSON: Oh, you are. Absolutely. Uh... we've made some modifications to the uniform. I had a little design input.

STEVE: The uniform? Aren't the stars and stripes a little... old fashioned?

COULSON: With everything that's happening, the things that are about to come to light, people might just need a little old fashioned. [Steve takes in Coulson's sentiment.]

[in the underground lab, Several soldiers under Loki's mind control run around, preparing to infiltrate whatever Loki has planned. Loki sits down, watching Selvig work with a CMS device. Loki meditates, until...the scepter materializes him back into the throne room of the Other, fully armed in his horned helmet and armor. The other appears from the steps.]

THE OTHER: The Chitauri grow restless

LOKI: Let them go at themselves. I will lead them into glorious battle.

THE OTHER: Battle? Against the meager might of Earth?

LOKI: Glorious, not lengthy. If your force is as formidable as you claim.

THE OTHER: You question us? You question him? He who put the scepter in your hand, who gave you ancient knowledge and new purpose when you were cast out, defeated?

LOKI: I was a king! The rightful kind of Asgard! Betrayed!

THE OTHER: Your ambition is little, born of childish need. We look beyond the Earth to greater worlds the Tesseract will unveil.

LOKI: You don't have the Tesseract yet. [The Other runs over to attack him, but stops as Loki points his scepter.] I don't threaten, but until I open the doors, until your force is mine to command, you are but words.

THE OTHER: You will have your war, Asgardian. If you fail, if the Tesseract is kept from us, there will be no realm, no barren moon, no crevice where he can't find you. You think you know pain? He will make you long for something as sweet as pain. [The Other places his hand on Loki's head and transports him back to Earth. Loki looks around, cautiously.]

[The Quinjet lands down a massive battleship known as the Helicarrier. It has two runways. One with direct access to a hangar at the rear is aligned along the spine of the vessel. Agent Coulson and Steve walk down the ramp, meeting up with Natasha.]

COULSON: Agent Romanoff, Captain Rogers.

STEVE: Ma'am?

NATASHA: Hi. [She looks at Coulson] They need you on the bridge. They're starting the face-trace.

COULSON: See you there. [Coulson walks away, leaving Steve with Natasha, the pair walking towards the railing of the Helicarrier]

NATASHA: It was quite the buzz around here, finding you in the ice. I thought Coulson was gonna swoon. Did he ask you to sign his Captain America trading cards yet?

STEVE: Trading cards?

NATASHA: They're vintage, he's very proud.

[Bruce Banner is seen walking around the ship, trying to stay out of the way while people walk in his way]

STEVE: Dr. Banner.

[The two walk up to each other and shake hands]

BRUCE: Oh, yeah. Hi. They told me you'd be coming.

STEVE: Word is you can find the cube.

BRUCE: Is that the only word on me?

STEVE: Only word I care about.

BRUCE: [Takes in the sentiment] It must be strange for you, all of this.

STEVE: [Looks off to where a group of men in training are running, remembering his days in the army] Well, this is actually kind of familiar.

NATASHA: Gentlemen, you might want to step inside in a minute. It's gonna get a little hard to breath.

[The Helicarrier starts to shake as it prepares to take "sail". Others abord strap down planes and Quinjets in preparation]

STEVE: Is this a submarine?

BRUCE: Really? They wanted me in a submerged, pressurized metal container?

[The two both move closer to the edge of the Helicarrier. Four huge lift fans mounted on the sides starts to lift into the air as the ship takes flight. Steve watches in awe while Bruce just smiles.]

BRUCE: Oh, no. This is much worse.

[The doors part and we enter the bridge of the ship. A flurry of activity, dozens of agents sit in front of their viewscreens. Agent Hill shouts instructions to leave. The camera turns to Nick Fury who is at the command chair.]

HILL: We're at lock, sir.

FURY: Good. Let's vanish.

[The Helicarrier rises high into the heavens. Suddenly the entire ship is covered in reflecting mirrors, which then camouflages in the sky. Steve and Banner walk through the glorious, gleaming bridge]

FURY: Gentlemen. [Steve gives Fury 10 bucks, referring to his earlier statement about never being surprised again. Fury walks over Banner and extends his hand. Banner, reluctantly shakes it.] Doctor, thank you for coming.

BRUCE: Thanks for asking nicely. So, uh... how long am I staying?

FURY: Once we get our hands on the Tesseract, you're in the clear.

BRUCE: Where are you with that? [Nick Fury turns to Agent Coulson to explain, while Natasha eyes an image of Clint Barton on a computer screen.]

COULSON: We're sweeping every wirelessly accessible camera on the planet. Cellphones, laptops. If it's connected to a satellite, it's eyes and ears for us.

NATASHA: That's still not gonna find them in time.

BRUCE: You have to narrow the field. How many spectrometers do you have access to?

FURY: How many are there?

BRUCE: Call every lab you know, tell them to put the spectrometers on the roof and calibrate them for gamma rays. I'll rough out a tracking algorithm based on cluster recognition. At least we could rule out a few places. Do you have somewhere for me to work?

FURY: Agent Romanoff, would you show Dr. Banner to his laboratory, please. [Natasha nods and walks off, leading Banner down the hall.]

NATASHA: You're gonna love it, Doc. We got all the toys.

[Back in the underground lab, Selvig and several scientists work around the CMS device. Clint walks in, holding a tablet.]

SELVIG: Put it over there! [To Clint] Where did you find all these people?

CLINT: SHIELD has not shortage of enemies, Doctor. [He holds up a screen showing information on Iridium]. Is this the stuff you need?

SELVIG: Yeah, iridium. It's found in meteorites, it forms anti-protons. It's very hard to get hold of.

CLINT: Especially if SHIELD knows you need it.

SELVIG: Well, I didn't know! [Sees Loki coming] Hey! The Tesseract is showing me so much. It's more than just knowledge, it's... truth.

LOKI: I know. What did it show you, Agent Barton?

CLINT: My next target.

LOKI: Tell me what you need.

CLINT: I'll need a distraction. [Grabs his bow] And an eyeball.

[That night in the Helicarrier bridge. As they are waiting to locate Loki using satellite facial recognition, Coulson is standing with Steve.]

COULSON: I mean, if it's not too much trouble.

STEVE: No, no. It's fine.

COULSON: It's a vintage set. It took me a couple of years to collect them all. Near mint, slight foxing around the edges, but...

AGENT JASPER SITWELL: We got a hit. Sixty-seven percent match. Weight, cross match, seventy-nine percent.

AGENT PHIL COULSON: Location?

SITWELL: Stuttgart, Germany. 28, Konigstrasse. He's not exactly hiding.

FURY: Captain, you're up. [Steve nods. Leaves.]

[Outside the Stuttgart Museum, night. Loki is standing in front of the museum, dressed in 21st Century attire with his scepter disguised as a cane. He walks up to the entrance of the gala.]

[Inside the Stuttgart Museum. A lavished gala with an orchestra playing is interrupted as the head doctor walks up to the mic.]

[Inside Helicarrier where Steve's locker is. Steve walks into the locker room. As he approaches to the steel cabinet, the doors already reveal the updated Captain America uniform, along with the famous shield. He stands in silence]

[Outside the museum. German guards stand in their positions. One of them is standing on tip of the roof, scoping. He then hears a sound. He looks down. One of his guards is shot with an arrow. He raises his gun. He is shot dead by an arrow. Falls down. Barton and his crew arrive at the doors of the locked science building. Barton looks at the retinal scanner. He pulls out a SHIELD eye scanner instrument.]

[Inside the gala, Loki looks from above the museum and descends down to where the head doctor is. As he makes it down and near the stage, he flips his cane the other end. The guard there notices him, pulls out his gun, but Loki clubs his head in. Chaos erupts. Guests begin to leave the museum. Loki grabs the doctor and flips him over onto a marble table of the mythological creatures bilchsteim. Loki pulls out an optical torture device. He plunges down the doctor's eye. The doctor twists in pain.]

[Outside the museum. Suddenly from Barton's instrument, a holographic eye of the head doctor appears and the image of the doctor appears on screen. The doors to the facility open. Barton walks in and finds in a cabinet, a glass thermos with a cylinder of iridium. As the crowd runs away, Loki slowly walks out and materializes in his gold armor and helmet. The police arrive and with no hesitation, he blasts the cars, flipping them over and over.]

LOKI: Kneel before me. [The crowd ignores him. Three more Loki's appear, surrounding and blocking the crowd from escaping.] I said KNEEL! [While the crowd quietly kneels, Loki embraces out his arms with a wide smile] Is not this simpler? Is this not your natural state? It's the unspoken truth of humanity, that you crave subjugation. The bright lure of freedom diminishes your life's joy in a mad scramble for power, for identity. You were made to be ruled. In the end, you will always kneel.

ELDER GERMAN MAN: [As the words resonate to the kneeling crowd, an elder German man refuses to kneel and stands, heroic.] Not to men like you.

LOKI: There are no men like me.

ELDER GERMAN MAN: There are always men like you.

LOKI: Look to your elder, people. Let him be an example. [As Loki is about to execute the man with his scepter as the light glows blue. Right as the energy beam shoots out, Captain America arrives, diving in just in time to block the blast with his shield, and knocking down Loki]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: You know, the last time I was in Germany and saw a man standing above everybody else, we ended up disagreeing.

LOKI: [Standing up] The soldier. A man out of time.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: I'm not the one who's out of time.

[From above Captain America, the Quinjet arrives. A machine gun is pointed towards Loki, while Natasha speaks from inside the aircraft]

NATASHA: Loki, drop the weapon and stand down.

[Like greased lightning, Loki sends a blast of blue at the Quinjet. Natasha maneuvers it just in time, giving Cap the time to throw his shield at Loki. They both began to duke it out. Loki flings Cap to the ground, and then Cap throws his shield, but Loki swats it away. As Cap is knocked down by Loki, the scepter is pointed to Cap's helmet]

LOKI: Kneel.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Not today! [Cap flips and knocks him out with his leg. Loki grabs him and flips him over]

NATASHA: This guy's all over the place.

[Suddenly AC/DC's "Shoot to Thrill" overdrives to the Quinjets speakers]

IRON MAN: Agent Romanoff, did you miss me? [Both Cap and Loki look up at the sky. Tony flies over in his Iron Man suit and blasts Loki right back to the ground. Iron Man touches down. He stands up and pulls out every piece of weaponry the suit has.] Make your move, Reindeer Games.

[Loki puts up his hands and surrenders. His armour materializes away]

IRON MAN: Good move.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Mr. Stark.

IRON MAN: Captain.

INT. QUINJET ­ NIGHT[Natasha watches the skies. THUNDER. Coming out of nowhere. Fury speaks over her headset.]

NICK FURY (V.O.): Said anything?

NATASHA: Not a word.

NICK FURY (V.O.): Just get him here. We're low on time.

[With Loki tied up and cuffed to his seat, Tony and Steve watch from a distance, whispering.]

STEVE: I don't like it.

TONY: What? Rock of Ages giving up so easily?

STEVE: I don't remember it being ever that easy. This guy packs a wallop.

TONY: Still, you are pretty spry, for an older fellow. What's your thing? Pilates?

STEVE: What?

TONY: It's like calisthenics. You might have missed a couple things, you know, during your time as a Capsicle.

[Steve looks at Tony, finally meeting his ego match.]

STEVE: Fury didn't tell me he was calling you in.

TONY: Yeah, there's a lot of things Fury doesn't tell you.

[THUNDER and LIGHTNING nearly hit the jet, making it shake violently.]

NATASHA: Where's this coming from?

[Thunder RUMBLES overhead. Loki stares out the window intently.]

STEVE: What's the matter? Scared of a little lightning?

LOKI: I'm not overly fond of what follows.

[OUTSIDE THE JET A BLINDING LIGHT hits the jet. Not a light. A King. THE MIGHTY THOR. Thor OPENS the ramp and grabs Loki by the throat and flies out. Steve and Tony are left dumbstruck. Tony puts the IRON MAN helmet on.]

IRON MAN: Now there's that guy.

NATASHA: Another Asgardian?

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Think the guy's a friendly?

IRON MAN: Doesn't matter. If he frees Loki or kills him, the Tesseract's lost. Tony turns and gets ready to jump off the jet to chase after Thor.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Stark, we need a plan of attack!

IRON MAN: I have a plan. Attack.

[IRON MAN jumps out of the jet and chases after Thor. Cap grabs a parachute to follow.]

NATASHA: I'd sit this one out, Cap.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: I don't see how I can.

NATASHA: These guys come from legends, they're basically gods.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: There's only one God, ma'am. And I'm pretty sure he doesn't dress like that.

[Cap JUMPS OUT of the jet.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. MOUNTAIN LEDGE ­ NIGHT

[Somewhere out in the European mountains, Thor throws Loki into the side of the mountain. He raises the mighty hammer, MJÖLNIR. He looks down at his brother, who he thought to be dead and is angry to see him alive in this fashion.]

THOR: Where is the Tesseract?

LOKI: (LAUGHS) I missed you too.

THOR: Do I look to be in a gaming mood?!

LOKI: Oh, you should thank me. With the Bifrost gone how much dark energy did the Allfather have to muster to conjure you here? Your precious Earth.

[Thor drops MJÖLNIR, causing the mountain to quake. He picks up Loki. His brother. Although Thor is pissed for what he has done, a family is everything to a man or god.]

THOR: I thought you died.

LOKI: Did you mourn?

THOR: We all did. Our father...

LOKI: Your father. He did tell you my true parentage, did he not? Thor lets go Loki, who walks away from Thor, causing an even bigger wedge between them.

THOR: We were raised together, we played together, we fought together. Do you remember none of that?

LOKI: (TURNS AROUND) I remember a shadow. Living in the shade of your greatness. I remember you tossing me into an abyss. I was and should be king!

THOR: So you take the world I love as recompense for your imagined slights. No, the Earth is under my protection, Loki.

LOKI: (LAUGHS) And you're doing a marvelous job with that. The humans slaughter each other in droves, while you idly threat. I mean to rule them. And why should I not?

THOR: You think yourself above them.

LOKI: Well, yes.

THOR: Then you miss the truth of ruling, brother. Throne would suit you ill. 

[Angrily, Loki shoves his brother to the side. He walks back up to the ledge. Turns around.]

LOKI: I've seen worlds you've never known about! I have grown, Odinson, in my exile! I have seen the true power of the Tesseract, and when I wield it...

THOR: Who showed you this power? Who controls the would-be-king?

LOKI: I am a king!

THOR: Not here! You give up the Tesseract! You give up this poisonous dream! You come home.

LOKI: I don't have it. You need the cube to bring me home, but I've sent it off. I know not where. 

[Mjölnir flies back to his grasp.]

THOR: You listen well, brother. I...

[Thor is knocked off the mountain by Iron Man who tackles him in mid-flight.]

LOKI: I'm listening.

EXT. FOREST ­ CONTINUOUS

[THOR and IRON MAN CRASH into the forest. Thor rolls himself up. IRON MAN is still standing, but keeps his distance. The helmet opens up.]

THOR: Do not touch me again!

TONY: Then don't take my stuff.

THOR: You have no idea what you're dealing with.

TONY: Shakespeare in the park? Doth mother know you weareth her drapes?

THOR: This is beyond you, metal man. Loki will face Asgardian justice!

TONY: He gives up the Cube, he's all yours. Until then, stay out of my way... tourist. 

The IRON MAN helmet clamps up and he walks away. In one quick move, Thor pulls Mjölnir, throws it, and KNOCKS IRON MAN clear across into a tree.

[INSIDE THE SUIT]

TONY: Okay. 

[From the mountain side, Loki watches in amusement. Thor raises his hand. Mjölnir flies back to his hand. Thor SWINGS the hammer, summoning a ray of energy.  IRON MAN stands up and from his HAND BOOSTERS, a BLAST of ENERGY KNOCKS the MIGHTY AVENGER on his ass. IRON MAN flies back up and knocks Thor into a tree.] Right back at you, bitch! [Thor, kneeling on the ground, pulls Mjölnir to his hand, raises it to the skies and pulls in LIGHTING and THUNDER! Thor points the hammer at IRON MAN and the outpouring of bolts lighting increases in intensity. IRON MAN falls back.]

[INSIDE THE SUIT]

JARVIS: Power at 400% capacity.

TONY: How about that?

[IRON MAN FIRES AWAY FROM HIS HAND BOOSTERS, pushing Thor to his knees. Like two gunslingers ready to draw, both Thor and IRON MAN fly towards each other and meet in the middle and ascend up.]

EXT. SKY ­ NIGHT

[The two battle. IRON MAN grasps THOR, elbowing him and SMASHING him into the side of a mountain.
THOR LEAPS off the mountain and takes IRON MAN with him.]

EXT. FOREST ­ CONTINUOUS

[THOR and IRON MAN crash right back down, smashing down every tree possible. IRON MAN YANKS Thor right up. Thor grabs both HANDS BOOSTERS and begins to CRUSH them. Tony quickly CHARGES as much energy as he can and SHOOTS ENERGY in Thor's face. Thor FALLS back, losing his stance. IRON MAN HEADBUTTS Thor, with his gold-titanium alloy helmet. Thor... HEADBUTTS him with his fuckin' head and actually sends IRON MAN across the forest. IRON MAN boosters up and flies back at Thor, grabbing him by the arm and cape and SWINGS him into another tree. Thor looks up, ready. Thor runs with all his patience out the window. IRON MAN SWINGS and MISSES, giving Thor the momentum to grab him, lift him and SMASH him down hard. Thor summons back Mjölnir to his hand. Just as he's about to put the hammer down, IRON MAN uses his HAND BOOSTERS to SKID across
the ground and trip Thor over. Standing up, Thor looks for him, but from behind him, IRON MAN CRASHES into his back. Thor stands facing IRON MAN. Ready to pounce... CAPTAIN AMERICA'S shield RICOCHETS off both Thor and IRON MAN, stopping them. They look up and see CAPTAIN AMERICA standing on top of a fallen tree with the shield back in hand.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Hey! That's enough! (comes down; looks at Thor) Now, I don't know what you plan on doing here.

THOR: I've come here to put an end to Loki's schemes!

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Then prove it! Put the hammer down.

IRON MAN: Um, yeah, no! Bad call! He loves his hammer!

[THOR BACKHANDS IRON MAN LIKE A PIMP WITH MJÖLNIR. Thor, losing all tolerance with this SENTENTIAL OF LIBERTY, raises the hammer.]

THOR: [to Cap] You want me to put the hammer down?

[THOR LEAPS HIGH INTO THE AIR, RAISING THAT FUCKING HAMMER. CAPTAIN AMERICA CROUCHES DOWN and HOLDS UP HIS SHIELD. THOR brings that hammer down onto the shield and a MASSIVE IMPLOSION OF LIGHT reacts to the vibranium shield creating a MASSIVE SHOCKWAVE THAT BLOWS UP ANYTHING STANDING WITHIN A MILE. IRON MAN stands up, looking around like `holy shit.' Lying right next to him is Cap, who never takes his eye off Thor. Thor looks at both men.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Are we done here?

[THOR, CAPTAIN AMERICA AND IRON MAN STAND THERE.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER HALLWAY ­ NIGHT

[DOZENS of SHIELD POLICE escort Loki, who is in handcuffs, smiling. As they pass the HELICARRIER LAB, Banner stops working on the CHITAURI SCEPTER and looks up. Loki eyes him as he walks, nodding and smiling. BANNER rubs his head.]

INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION ­ NIGHT

[Loki is now free from his cuffs and is contained in a LARGE GLASS CELL held by HYDRAULIC RIGS. Fury walks up the control panel of the cell.]

NICK FURY:  In case it's unclear. You try to escape. You so much as scratch that glass.

[Fury presses a button which OPENS UP a HATCH underneath Loki's cell. Loki peers as much as he can from the glass. Without seeing, the sounds of GUSTING WIND would make man shit his pants. Not a god, though.]

NICK FURY: Thirty thousand feet, straight down in a steel trap. You get how that works?!

[Fury closes the hatch. Points at Loki.]

NICK FURY: Ant.

[Then points at the button which would drop Loki into the steel trap.]

NICK FURY: Boot.

LOKI: (SMIRKING) It's an impressive cage. Not built, I think, for me.

NICK FURY: Built for something a lot stronger than
you.

LOKI: Oh, I've heard.

[Loki looks into the camera.]

INT. BRIEFING ROOM ­ CONTINUOUS

[The others watch on the monitor Loki getting interrogated. Banner looks at the monitor, intently.]

INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION ­ CONTINUOUS

LOKI: The mindless beast, makes play he's still a man. How desperate are you, that you call upon such lost creatures to defend you?

NICK FURY: How desperate am I? You threaten my world with war. You steal a force you can't hope to control. You talk about peace and you kill `cause it's fun. You have made me very desperate. You might not be glad that you did.

LOKI: Ooh. It burns you to come so close. To have the Tesseract, to have power, unlimited power. And for what? A warm light for all mankind to share, and then to be reminded what real power is.

NICK FURY: (SMILING) Well, you let me know if Real Power wants a magazine or something.

[Fury walks off leaving Loki in his glass cell. Loki looks back at the camera, smirking.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. BRIEFING ROOM ­ CONTINUOUS

[Steve watches until the monitor goes black. Thor, who didn't even look, just listened, stands there, torn apart. They all just stand there in stunned SILENCE. Finally...]

BANNER: He really grows on you, doesn't he?

STEVE: Loki's gonna drag this out. So, Thor, what's his play?

THOR: (COMING TOO) He has an army called the Chitauri. They're not of Asgard or any world known. He means to lead them against your people. They will win him the earth. In return, I suspect, for the Tesseract.

STEVE: (SERIOUSLY) An army? From outer space?

BANNER: So he's building another portal. That's what he needs Erik Selvig for.

THOR: Selvig?

BANNER: He's an astrophysicist.

THOR: He's a friend.

NATASHA: Loki has him under some kind of spell, along with one of ours.

STEVE: I wanna know why Loki let us take him. He's not leading an army from here.

BANNER: I don't think we should be focusing on Loki. That guy's brain is a bag full of cats, you could smell crazy on him.

THOR: Have care how you speak. Loki is beyond reason, but he is of Asgard, and he's my brother.

NATASHA: He killed eighty people in two days.

THOR: He's adopted.

BANNER: I think it's about the mechanics. Iridium, what did they need the Iridium for?

TONY: It's a stabilizing agent. (walks in with Coulson; to COULSON) I'll fly you there. Keep the love alive. Means the portal won't collapse on itself, like it did at SHIELD.

TONY (CONT'D) (TO THOR): No hard feelings, Point Break. You've got a mean swing. (referring to the Iridium) Also, it means the portal can open as wide, and stay open as long, as Loki wants. (TO CREW) Uh, raise the mid-mast, ship the top sails. That man is playing GALAGA! Thought we wouldn't notice. But we did. (covering his eye, looks AROUND) How does Fury do this?

AGENT MARIA HILL: He turns.

[Tony looks around the monitors and places a BUTTON SIZE HACKING IMPLANT under Fury's desk, without anyone noticing.]

TONY: Well, that sounds exhausting. The rest of the raw materials, Agent Barton can get his hands on pretty easily. Only major component he still needs is a power source. A high energy density, something to kick start the cube.

AGENT MARIA HILL: When did you become an expert in thermonuclear astrophysics?

TONY: Last night. The packet, Selvig's notes, the Extraction Theory papers. Am I the only one who did the reading?

STEVE: Does Loki need any particular kind of power source?

BANNER: He's got to heat the cube to a hundred and twenty million Kelvin just to break through the Coulomb barrier.

TONY: Unless, Selvig has figured out how to stabilize the quantum tunneling effect.

BANNER: Well, if he could do that he could achieve Heavy Ion Fusion at any reactor on the planet.

TONY: Finally, someone who speaks English.

STEVE: Is that what just happened?

[Tony and Banner shake hands. A glimmer in their eyes shines as the mutual respect for each other shows.]

TONY : It's good to meet you, Dr. Banner. Your work on anti-electron collisions is unparalleled. And I'm a huge fan of the way you lose control and turn into an enormous green rage monster.

BANNER: (LOOKS DOWN) Thanks.

NICK FURY: (WALKING IN) Dr. Banner is only here to track the cube. I was hoping you might join him.

STEVE: Let's start with that stick of his. It may be magical, but it works an awful lot like a HYDRA weapon.

NICK FURY: I don't know about that, but it is powered by the cube. And I'd like to know how Loki used it to turn two of the sharpest men I know into his personal flying monkeys.

THOR: Monkeys? I do not understand.

STEVE: I do! I understood that reference.

[Tony rolls his eyes, while Cap looks proud of himself.]

TONY: Shall we play, doctor?

BANNER: Let's play some.

[As Banner and Tony walk out, the GALAGA PLAYER turns ever so discreetly, watches as everyone else disperses and goes back to playing.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. BANNER'S LAB - NIGHT (LATER)

[Banner continuously scans with a gamma ray detection scanner on the scepter for radiation. Tony looks at his monitors, shifting and solving as many algorithms and equations.]

BANNER: The gamma readings are definitely consistent with Selvig's reports on the Tesseract. But it's gonna take weeks to process.

TONY: If we bypass their mainframe and direct a reroute to the Homer cluster, we can clock this around six hundred teraflops.

BANNER: All I packed was a tooth brush.

TONY: (SMILES) You know, you should come by STARK TOWER sometime. Top ten floors, all R&D. You'd love it, it's candy land.

BANNER: Thanks, but the last time I was in New York I kind of broke...Harlem.

TONY: Well, I promise a stress free environment. No tension. No surprises.

[Suddenly, Tony pokes Banner with a MINIATURE ELECTRICAL PROD. Steve walks in on them, pissed at Tony.]

BANNER: OW! 

[Tony looks at Banner closely.]

STEVE: Hey!

TONY: Nothing?

STEVE: Are you nuts?

TONY: You really have got a lid on it, haven't you? What's your secret? Mellow jazz? Bongo drums? Huge bag of weed?

STEVE: Is everything a joke to you?

TONY: Funny things are.

STEVE: Threatening the safety of everyone on this ship isn't funny. No offense, Doctor.

BANNER: No, it's alright. I wouldn't have come aboard if I couldn't handle pointy things.

TONY: You're tiptoeing, big man. You need to strut.

STEVE: And you need to focus on the problem, Mr. Stark.

TONY: You think I'm not? Why did Fury call us and why now? Why not before? What isn't he telling us? I can't do the equation unless I have all the variables.

STEVE: You think Fury's hiding something?

TONY: He's a spy. Captain, he's the spy. His secrets have secrets. (points to Banner) It's bugging him too, isn't it?

BANNER: (bobbling the words) Uh...I just wanna finish my work here and...

STEVE: Doctor?

[A beat.]

BANNER: 'A warm light for all mankind, Loki's jab at Fury about the cube.

STEVE: I heard it.

BANNER: (pointing at Tony) Well, I think that was meant for you. Even if Barton didn't post that all over the news.

STEVE: Stark Tower? That big ugly (Tony gives him a look) ...building in New York?

BANNER: It's powered by Stark Reactors, self-sustaining energy source. That building will run itself for what, a year?

TONY: That's just the prototype. I'm kind of the only name in clean energy right now.

BANNER: (referring to Tony) So, why didn't SHIELD bring him in on the Tesseract project? I mean, what are they doing in the energy business in the first place?

TONY: I should probably look into that once my decryption programmer finishes breaking into all of SHIELD's secure files.

STEVE: (taken aback by that) I'm sorry, did you say...?

TONY: Jarvis has been running it since I hit the bridge. In a few hours we'll know every dirty secret SHIELD has ever tried to hide. (holds out a bag of blueberries) Blueberry?

STEVE: Yet you're confused about why they didn't want you around?

TONY: An intelligence organization that fears intelligence? Historically, not possible.

STEVE: I think Loki's trying to wind us up. This is a man who means to start a war, and if don't stay focused, he'll succeed. We have orders, we should follow them.

TONY: Following is not really my style.

STEVE: (SMILING) And you're all about style, aren't you?

TONY: (a nerve hit) Of the people in this room, which one is; A. wearing a spangly outfit, and B. not of use?

BANNER: Steve, tell me none of this smells a little funky to you?

[Steve takes in the possibility, but as an obedient soldier, shakes it off.]

STEVE: Just find the cube.

[Steve walks out of the lab. Still torn apart by the possibility, he walks away, towards the HULL of the ship.]

BACK IN THE LAB

TONY: That's the guy my dad never shut up about? Wondering if they shouldn't have kept him on ice.

BANNER: The guy's not wrong about Loki. He does have the jump on us.

TONY: What he's got is an ACME dynamite kit. It's gonna blow up in his face, and I'm gonna be there when it does.

BANNER: And I'll read all about it.

TONY: Uh-huh. Or you'll be suiting up like the rest of us.

BANNER: Ah, see. I don't get a suit of armor. I'm exposed, like a nerve. It's a nightmare.

TONY: You know, I've got a cluster of shrapnel, trying every second to crawl its way into my heart. (points at the MINI-ARC
REACTOR in his chest) This stops it. This little circle of light. It's part of me now, not just armor. It's a... terrible privilege.

BANNER: But you can control it.

TONY: Because I learned how.

BANNER: It's different.

[Banner tries to read the computer screen, but Tony slides the data aside with his finger so the two can see face-to-face.]

TONY: Hey, I've read all about your accident. That much gamma exposure should have killed you.

BANNER: So you're saying that the Hulk... the other guy... saved my life? That's nice. It's a nice sentiment. Saved it for what?

TONY: (A BEAT) I guess we'll find out.

[Banner and Stark get back to work at their respective computers.]

BANNER: You might not like that.

TONY: You just might.

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HULL HANGAR, SECURE STORAGE 10-C ­ NIGHT

[Steve, with all his MIGHT, slides the HEAVY IRON door and STEALTHILY walks in. SECURE STORAGE 10-C is a large warehouse, filled with METAL CRATES stacked. Steve looks up, seeing another level. He LEAPS up high and holds onto the catwalk railing. Steve continues to move forward.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. VAN ­ NIGHT

[Inside this particular van, Selvig and a few other SOLDIERS are driving inside a long tunnel. With the CMS device inside, Selvig carefully picks up the small cylinder shape IRIDIUM with metal prongs and lightly places it in a SLOT within the CMS. THE CMS ACCEPTS IT. Selvig looks at it, devilishly smiling.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. BRIEFING ROOM ­ NIGHT

[On a SHIELD monitor is a photo and record of JANE FOSTER. Thor looks at her, remembering. With him is Agent Coulson.]

AGENT PHIL COULSON: As soon as Loki took the doctor we moved Jane Foster. We've got an excellent observatory in Tromso. She was asked to consult there very suddenly yesterday. Handsome fee, private plane, very remote. She'll be safe.

THOR: Thank you. It's no accident Loki taking Erik Selvig; I dread what he plans for him once he's done. Erik is a good man.

AGENT PHIL COULSON: He talks about you a lot. You changed his life. You changed everything around here.

THOR: They were better as they were. We pretend on Asgard that we're more advanced, but we... we come here battling like BILCHSNIPE.

AGENT PHIL COULSON: Like what?

THOR: BILCHSNIPE? You know; huge, scaly, big antlers. You don't have those?

AGENT PHIL COULSON: Don't think so.

THOR: They are repulsive, and they trample everything in their path.

[Thor walks over to the side of the ship and looks out the window, lamenting about what had happened and what may come.]

THOR: When I first came to Earth, Loki's rage followed me here and your people paid the price. And now again. In my youth I courted war.

NICK FURY (O.S.): War hasn't started yet. (WALKING IN) You think you can make Loki tell us what the Tesseract is?

THOR: I do not know. Loki's mind is far afield, it's not just power he craves, it's vengeance upon me. There's no pain that would prize his need from him.

NICK FURY: A lot of guys think that, until the pain stops.

THOR: What are you asking me to do?

NICK FURY: I'm asking, what are you prepared to do?

THOR: Loki is a prisoner.

NICK FURY: Then why do I feel like he's the only person on this boat that wants to be here?

[Thor doesn't answer.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION ­ NIGHT

[Loki walks back and forth inside his glass cell. Suddenly, he stops.]

LOKI: There's not many people that can sneak up on me. (turns to see NATASHA STANDING THERE)

NATASHA: But you figured I'd come.

LOKI: After. After whatever tortures Fury can concoct, you would appear as a friend, as a balm. And I would cooperate.

NATASHA: I wanna know what you've done to Agent Barton.

LOKI: I'd say I've expanded his mind.

NATASHA: And once you've won. Once you're king of the mountain. What happens to his mind?

LOKI: Is this love, Agent Romanoff? 

NATASHA: Love is for children. I owe him a debt.

LOKI: (SITTING DOWN) Tell me.

NATASHA: (she pulls up a chair as WELL) Before I worked for SHIELD, I uh...well, I made a name for myself. I have a very specific skillset. I didn't care who I used it for, or on. I got on SHIELD's radar in a bad way. Agent Barton was sent to kill me, he made a different call.

LOKI: And what will you do if I vow to spare him?

NATASHA: Not let you out.

LOKI: (LAUGHS) Ah, no. But I like this. Your world in the balance, and you bargain for one man?

NATASHA: Regimes fall every day. I tend not to weep over that, I'm Russian... or was.

LOKI: What is it you want?

NATASHA: It's really not that complicated. I've got red in my ledger, I'd like to wipe it out.

LOKI: Can you? Can you wipe out that much red? DRAKOV'S daughter? SÃO PAULO? THE HOSPITAL FIRE? Barton told me everything. Your ledger is dripping,
it's gushing red, and you think saving a man no more virtuous than yourself will change anything? (STANDING; ANGRY) This is the basest sentimentality. This is a child at prayer... PATHETIC!

INTERCUTS - Tony and Banner continuously work at their monitors.

LOKI (V.O.): You lie and kill in the service of liars and killers.

[Agent Hill checks every VIEWSCREEN in the bridge. Fury oversees.]

LOKI (V.O.) You pretend to be separate, to have your own code, something that makes up for the horrors. But they are a part of you, and they will never go away! 

[Steve opens a STEEL crate. Angry, he looks behind him and looks back into the crate. THE CRATE IS FILLED WITH AN ARRAY OF HYDRA WEAPONS.]

INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION ­ NIGHT

[Loki SLAMS his cell, making Natasha FLINCH.]

LOKI: I won't touch Barton. Not until I make him kill you! Slowly. Intimately. In every way he knows you fear! And when he'll wake just long enough to see his good work, and when he screams, I'll split his skull! This is my bargain, you mewling quim!

[NATASHA turns around, walks away from Loki, disgusted.]

NATASHA: (QUIETLY; DISTRAUGHT) You're a monster.

LOKI: (LAUGHS) No, you brought the monster.

NATASHA: (turns back around; poised) So, Banner... that's your play.

LOKI: (STAGGERED) What?

NATASHA: (ON EARPIECE) Loki means to unleash the Hulk. Keep Banner in the lab, I'm on my way. Send Thor as well. (TO LOKI) Thank you for your cooperation. 

[Natasha quickly walks out, leaving Loki frozen.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. BANNER'S LAB ­ MORNING

[Fury walks in SURPRISED to see Tony and Banner stop working on the scepter.]

NICK FURY: (ANGRY) What are you doing, Mr. Stark? 

TONY: Uh...kind of been wondering the same thing about you.

NICK FURY: You're supposed to be locating the Tesseract.

BANNER: We are. The model's locked and we're sweeping for the signature now. When we get a hit, we'll have the location within half a mile.

TONY: And you'll get your cube back, no muss, no fuss. (suddenly his monitor show a collection of SECRET FILES) What is PHASE 2?

[Suddenly, Steve drops a HYDRA ASSAULT RIFLE on the table causing Fury, Banner and Tony to turn around. Cap looks pissed.]

STEVE: PHASE 2 is SHIELD uses the cube to make weapons. (TO TONY) Sorry, the computer was moving a little slow.

NICK FURY: (trying to explain) Rogers, we gathered everything related to the Tesseract. This does not mean that we're...

TONY: I'm sorry, Nick.

[Tony moves the computer screen towards Fury which shows plans of THE WEAPONS.]

TONY: What were you lying?

STEVE: I was wrong, director. The world hasn't changed a bit. 

[At that moment, Thor and Natasha walk into the lab. Natasha keeps her eyes right on Banner. Banner looks at her, PISSED.]

BANNER: Did you know about this?

NATASHA: You wanna think about removing yourself from this environment, doctor?

BANNER: I was in Calcutta, I was pretty well removed.

NATASHA: Loki's manipulating you.

BANNER: And you've been doing what exactly?

NATASHA: You didn't come here because I bat my eyelashes at you.

BANNER: Yes, and I'm not leaving because suddenly you get a little twitchy. I'd like to know why SHIELD is using the Tesseract to build weapons of mass destruction.

NICK FURY: Because of him. (pointing at Thor)

THOR: (STUNNED) Me?

NICK FURY: Last year, Earth had a visitor from another planet who had a grudge match that leveled a small town. We learned that not only are we not alone, but we are hopelessly, hilariously, outgunned.

THOR: My people want nothing but peace with your planet.

NICK FURY: But you're not the only people out there, are you? And, you're not the only threat. The world's filling up with people who can't be matched, they can't be controlled.

STEVE: Like you controlled the cube?

THOR: Your work with the Tesseract is what drew Loki to it, and his allies. It is the signal to all the realms that the earth is ready for a higher form of war.

STEVE: A higher form?

NICK FURY: You forced our hand. We had to come up with something.

TONY: Nuclear deterrent. `Cause that always calms everything right down.

NICK FURY: Remind me again how you made your fortune, Stark?

STEVE: I'm sure if he still made weapons, Stark would be neck deep... 

TONY: Wait! Wait! Hold on! How is this now about me?

STEVE: I'm sorry, isn't everything?

THOR: I thought humans were more evolved than this.

NICK FURY: Excuse me, did WE come to YOUR planet and blow stuff up?

THOR: Did you always give your champions such mistrust?

NATASHA: Are you all really that naive? S.H.I.E.L.D monitors potential threats.

BANNER: Captain America is on the threat potential watch list?

TONY: (to Steve) You're on that list? Are you above or below angry bees?

STEVE: I swear to God, Stark, one more crack...

TONY: Threatening! I feel threatened!

[As the "team" argues, they don't realize the BLUE GEM on Loki's scepter is glowing brightly.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. AIRCRAFT CARRIER ­ DAY

Outside the HELICARRIER, a lone carrier slowly hovers over the ship.

SHIELD BASE VOICE: 661 Bravo, please relay your pass code. What is your hull, over?

BARTON: Arms to ammunition, over.

[Inside, BARTON and his crew suit up and arm themselves. Barton pulls out his hi-tech bow and arrows.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. BANNER'S LAB ­ MORNING

[Back in the lab, the egos of these people keep rubbing off each other and at any moment, the shit will hit the fan.]

THOR: You speak of control, yet you court chaos.

BANNER: It's his M.O., isn't it? I mean, what are we, a team? No, no, no. We're a chemical mixture that makes chaos. We're... we're a time-bomb.

NICK FURY: You need to step away.

TONY: (puts his arm around Steve) Why shouldn't the guy let off a little steam?

STEVE: (pushes Tony off)You know damn well why! Back off!

TONY: (comes face-to-face with Cap) Oh, I'm starting to want you to make me.

STEVE: Big man in a suit of armor. Take that off, what are you?

TONY: Genius, billionaire, playboy, philanthropist.

STEVE: I know guys with none of that worth ten of you. Yeah, I've seen the footage. The only thing you really fight for is yourself. You're not the guy to make the sacrifice play, to lay down on a wire and let the other guy crawl over you.

TONY: I think I would just cut the wire.

STEVE: (SMILING) Always a way out... You know, you may not be a threat, but you better stop pretending to be a hero.

TONY: (that did it) A hero? Like you? You're a lab rat, Rogers. Everything special about you came out of a bottle!

                                                                                                                                                                            

OUTSIDE THE HELICARRIER

[The ramp of the carrier opens. The carrier maneuvers next to one of the large turbine engines. Barton stands at the base, holding out his bow. He pulls out a GRENADE TIPPED ARROW. He points right at the engine. Then...Barton moves his AIM and points the arrow about a hundred feet from the engine. He releases. The arrow flies out,but then SHARPLY heads for the engine. The arrow is punctured onto the engine. It has a visible timer which is COUNTING DOWN.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. BANNER'S LAB ­ MORNING

[Back in the lab, Steve puffs up his chest at Tony, who just stands there, unmoving.]

STEVE: Put on the suit, let's go a few rounds.

[Thor laughs at them.]

THOR: You people are so petty... and tiny.

[Tony rubs his head. Moves away from Cap.]

BANNER: Yeah, this is a team…

NICK FURY: Agent Romanoff, would you escort Dr.Banner back to his…

BANNER: Where? You rented my room.

NICK FURY: The cell was just in case…

BANNER: In case you needed to kill me, but you can't! I know! I tried! (A BEAT) I got low. I didn't see an end, so I put a bullet in my mouth and the other guy spit it out! So I moved on. I focused on helping other people. I was good, until you dragged me back into this freak show and put everyone here at risk!

[Banner slowly gets upset as he looks at Romanoff, who gets ]unnerved.]

BANNER: You wanna know my secret, Agent Romanoff? You wanna know how I stay calm?

[BLACK WIDOW and Fury have their hands down to grab their guns.]

STEVE: Doctor Banner... put down the scepter.

[BANNER LOOKS DOWN AND IS SHOCKED TO SEE HE'S HOLDING LOKI'S SCEPTER. The computer beeps. They all turn to it.]

TONY: Got it.

[Banner puts down the scepter and walks over to the computer.]

BANNER: Sorry, kids. You don't get to see my little party trick after all.

THOR: Located the Tesseract?

TONY: I can get there faster.

STEVE: Look, all of us…

THOR: The Tesseract belongs on Asgard, no human is a match for it.

[Tony turns to leave, but Steve stops him.]

STEVE: You're not going alone!

TONY: You gonna stop me?

STEVE: Put on the suit, let's find out.

TONY: I'm not afraid to hit an old man.

STEVE: Put on the suit.

[At that moment Banner who's looking at the monitor notices something about the Tesseract.]

BANNER: Oh, my God!

                                                                                                                                                                            

OUTSIDE THE HELICARRIER: 

[Barton PULLS THE TRIGGER ON HIS BOW. The arrow then EXPLODES THE ENGINE RIGHT OFF THE HELICARRIER!]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. BANNER'S LAB ­ MORNING

[Everyone is thrown in every direction. Steve, Fury, Thor and Tony are thrown across while Natasha and Banner are down in the lower equipment room. Steve looks up at Tony.]

STEVE: Put on the suit!

TONY: Yep!

[Steve helps Tony up and out of the lab. Fury sits up, clutching his ribs. He puts on his EARPIECE.]

NICK FURY: Hill?!

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE ­ DAY

[PANDEMONIUM ERUPTS. Emergency alarms set off, fire extinguishers activate near surrounding fires and every agent is in a spinning scramble for their positions and armaments. Agent Hill keeps the bridge as calm as possible.]

AGENT MARIA HILL: Turn up that engine! Number 3 engine is: down! Can we get a run in? (runs over to GALAGA PLAYER) Talk to me.

GALAGA PLAYER: (points to monitor) Turbine's loose. Mostly intact, but it's impossible to get out there and make repairs while we're in the air.

AGENT MARIA HILL: We lose one more engine, we won't be. Somebody's got to get inside and patch that engine.

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. BANNER'S LAB ­ MORNING

NICK FURY: Stark! You copy that?!

TONY (V.O.): I'm on it!

NICK FURY: Coulson! Initiate official lock down in the detention section then get to the armory! Move out!

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE ­ DAY

[Agent Coulson runs out of the bridge.]

INT. LOWER EQUIPMENT ROOM, CARRIER ­ MORNING

[Natasha looks over to Banner, who is breathing heavy, having landed hard. He is gripping the grated floor to maintain control, but his eyes are green, his face intense.]

NATASHA: (quietly, to herself) I'm okay. We're okay, right?

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. HELICARRIER DECK ­ DAY

[Barton leads his men into the air ducts of the ship. They rappel down into a corridor.]

BARTON: Get that engine down! Detention! Get him through the dark! Come with me.

[Two of his men follow him. They head towards the bridge.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. ND HALLWAY, CARRIER ­ MORNING

[Tony and Cap run through a dim, debris filled hall.]

TONY: Find engine three. I'll meet you there.

[Cap peels off as Tony approaches a tech room. Inside, Tony's IRON MAN suit stands waiting, lit above in all its glory.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. LOWER EQUIPMENT ROOM, CARRIER ­ 

[FOCUS ON BANNER'S FACE in the dim light as he struggles to suppress the rage, but his face is growing, changing slowly. Natasha is pulling herself painfully free, talking to Banner.]

NATASHA: Doctor... Bruce, you gotta fight it. This is just what Loki wants. We're gonna be okay. Listen to me.

[Two approaching SHIELD soldiers arrive to check on her. She furiously WAVES them away. They bolt out of there.]

NATASHA: We're gonna be okay. Right? I swear on my life I will get you out of this, you will walk away, and never…

BANNER: Your life?

[His voice has the change in it -- the bitter amusement is morphing to a growled threat. Another explosion rocks the carrier -- and he turns to look at her, transforming just as the lights go out.]

NATASHA: (PLEADING) Bruce.

[Banner suddenly starts transforming into the HULK and gives Natasha one last knowing look. Natasha STRUGGLES FREE of the rubble. She stops. The HULK, sensing her, turns his head and puts on a face of a disturbing monster. Natasha JOLTS up the stairs with the HULK chasing after her. Natasha maneuvers like a black widow should. She rolls under a turbine, starts to crawl within the maze of pipes. The HULK pulls them out from above the catwalk. Natasha falls through under the catwalks and quickly and stealthily escapes. The HULK lets out a ROAR OF RAGE unlike anything. PRIMAL. Not human.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION ­ DAY

[Loki looks up, smiling mischievously.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE ­ DAY

[Fury RUNS in and sees the chaos has increased even more than before. The HELMSMAN is in complete disarray.]

NICK FURY: Bring the carrier inwards and head south. Take us to the water.

HELMSMAN: Why water? Navigations recalibrated after the engine failure.

NICK FURY: Is the sun coming up?!

HELMSMAN: Yes, sir.

NICK FURY: Then put it on the left! Get us over water! One more turbine goes down and we drop.

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE ­ DAY

[CAPTAIN AMERICA, pushing with all his strength the door to portside, sees SHIELD tech in full oxygen masks shoot fire extinguishers and cover from sparks -- largely unable to do anything. Engine 3 is totally dead. A LARGE CHUNK of the port side in TORN OFF.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Stark, I'm here!

TONY: Good. See what we got.

[Tony flies in his IRON MAN suit and gets close to the damaged engine.]

INSIDE THE SUIT

[Tony observes within his viewscreen at the damaged engine and its layouts.]

TONY: I gotta get this super conducting cooling system back online before I can access the rotors and work on dislodging the debris.

EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE ­ DAY

[IRON MAN begins PULLING on the stuck rotors. Looks over at Steve.]

IRON MAN: I need you to get to that engine control panel and tell me which relays are in overload position.

[IRON MAN flies into giant cooling conductors. CAPTAIN AMERICA JUMPS over to the other side of the broken railing. CAPTAIN AMERICA gets himself to the control panel and opens it up. For a man who grew up as a YANK, what the fuck is this!]

IRON MAN: What's it look like in there?

CAPTAIN AMERICA: It seems to run on some form of electricity.

IRON MAN: Well, you're not wrong.

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. LOWER EQUIPMENT ROOM, CARRIER ­ DAY

[Natasha continuously crawls under the catwalk. She stops. Then...BOOM. BOOM. BOOM. The room vibrates. Rhythmically. Natasha pulls out her gun and slowly walks out onto the catwalk and spins. ...and then a ROAR. THE HULK. Natasha FIRES a shot into a liquid nitrogen pipe that hits the hulk in face. The HULK SMASHES THE SHIT OUT OF IT. Natasha begins to run through the maze of corridors. The sound the monster is coming. Finally, she reaches and a long corridor. As she runs, behind her, the HULK TEARS up the hallway, coming at her. Natasha turns to see, but the HULK SLAPS her into the wall, SMASHING INTO THE GROUND. The HULK marks his territory. Natasha looks up. A fear she has never felt begins to seep out. The HULK raises his hand and IS KNOCKED OFF HIS FEET BY THOR WHO TACKLES HIM INTO the next room.]

INT. HELICARRIER AIRCRAFT PORT ­ CONTINUOUS

[Both Thor and HULK roll across the floor. Every person runs the hell out. Thor looks up at this magnificent beast. The HULK stands up and moving like a boxer, wants Thor to make his move. The HULK makes his move. SWING AND A MISS. Thor swings his massive hand and almost knocks HULK off his feet. HULK keeps swinging and missing, pissing him off. Finally, he brings down his arm, but Thor grabs it and wraps around it.]

THOR: We are not your enemies, Banner! Try to think!

[HULK lifts his arm up, to Thor's surprise, and he SENDS HIM FLYING AS HE PUNCHES THOR'S FACE WITH HIS FIST.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE ­ DAY

[IRON MAN continuously BLASTS broken debris off the turbine engine. It's bad, but still fixable.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA (V.O.): The relays are intact. What's our next move?

TONY: Even if I clear the rotors, this thing won't re-engage without a jump. I'm gonna have to get in there and push.

EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE ­ DAY

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Well if that thing gets up to speed, you'll get shredded!

TONY: Then stay in the control unit and reverse polarity long enough to disengage mag…

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Speak English! 

TONY: See that red lever? It'll slow the rotors down long enough for me to get out. Stand by it, wait for my word.

[CAPTAIN AMERICA looks over at the other side where he was. He sees the red lever and JUMPS towards it.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER AIRCRAFT PORT ­ DAY

[Thor CRASHES into another stack of crates. As he raises his head, he feels something on his lips. BLOOD. As he swipes it off, the ROAR of the HULK is not too far. Thor extends his hand out. The ROAR gets LOUDER and CLOSER. Thor focuses. His hand strains toward mid-air. His eyes tight in concentration. The HULK runs right at him. At the last second, MJÖLNIR flies into his hand and Thor UPPERCUTS HULK, WHO CRASHES INTO A FIGHTER JET. HULK stands up, shaking his head like `what the fuck just happened.' He SHAKES it off and ANGRILY rips off the TAIL of the jet, TORQUES HIS BODY LIKE A GREEK DISCUS THROWER AND... HURLS THE MASSIVE PLATE AT THOR. Thor SLIDES and DUCKS under the tail. Jumping up, he throws Mjölnir with all his strength, knocking the HULK head over heels. HULK falls down, hammer in hand. HE tries to lift it, but can't. Mjölnir rests atop his hand. Struggle as he may, HULK wraps his hand around the hammer. The hammer doesn't move. To no avail -- he strains with all his might, SCREAMS from the effort, BELLOWING. Thor jumps up again, KNEEING HULK in the face. Thor grabs his hammer, jumps on him, using the hammer as a lock for his CHOKEHOLD. Hulk tries to pull him off.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE ­ DAY

[Fury and Agent Hill look over their monitors.]

NICK FURY: We need a full evac on the lower hangar bay.

[Agent Hill nods. She leaves to exit out, but a SLIDING GRENADE appears.]

AGENT MARIA HILL: GRENADE!

[The grenade goes off, sending her down the steps. Fury FIRES a shot at the open entrance. He moves over behind the side of the entrance. A handful of Barton's men enter. Watchful, ready, waiting... Fury steps out, his GUN drawn. A SHOOT OUT and HAND-TO-HAND ensues, but Fury is unable to stop one of them, which is why he is shot in the head by Agent Hill.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER ARMORY SECTION ­ DAY

[Agent Coulson walks up the armory door. He places his head into a FACIAL RECOGNITION SCANNER. Walks into the room.]

AGENT JASPER SITWELL (V.O.): We got perimeter breach! Hostiles are in SHIELD gear. Hold on to every junction.

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER AIRCRAFT PORT ­ DAY

[HULK CRASHES from under the floor, sending Thor on his ass. HULK grabs him by the neck.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE ­ DAY

[A gunfight opens up. AGENTS exchange fire with brutally efficient tactical soldiers.]

AGENT JASPER SITWELL (V.O.): We have the HULK and Thor on research level 4. Levels 2 and 3 are dark.

AGENT MARIA HILL: Sir, the Hulk will tear this place apart!

NICK FURY: Get his attention.

AGENT MARIA HILL: (on her EARPIECE) Escort 0-6, proceed to Wishbone and engage hostile. Don't get too close.

ESCORT 0-6 PILOT (V.O.): Copy.

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. SKY ­ DAY

[ESCORT 0-6'S jet BANKS to the right, heading towards the shuttle.]

EXT. OUTSIDE SHUTTLE

[ESCORT 606 PILOT slowly makes his way in. sees the action going between Thor and the HULK.]

ESCORT 606 PILOT: Target acquired. Target engaged. (pulls the trigger; fires guns at HULK)

[A SHOWER OF BULLETS SPRAY THE HULK EVERYWHERE. Thor ducks for cover. The HULK turns around, letting out his PRIMAL ROAR. He jumps up, TAKES A RUNNING START AND LEAPS… ESCORT 606 PILOT LOOKS LIKE HE TOOK A SHIT.]

ESCORT 606 PILOT: TARGET ANGRY! TARGET ANGRY!

[HULK LANDS ON THE JET'S NOSE. THE JET SPINS WILDLY. As the HULK tears it apart, ESCORT 606 PILOT pulls his ejection seat, but HOLD THE FUCKIN' DOOR! THE HULK CATCHES HIM, WAVES HIM AROUND AND THEN THROWS HIM AWAY. ESCORT 606 PILOT pulls his parachute. THE JET EXPLODES. THE HULK PLUMMETS TO EARTH, ROARING HIS SWAN SONG.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE ­ DAY

[IRON MAN laser cuts a big piece of broken metal. He then JUMPS on it, relieving the rotors. On the other side, BARTON'S men enter the port side. CAPTAIN AMERICA looks down, pondering if they are help. Evidently not as they begin SHOOTING at him and throwing grenades. CAPTAIN AMERICA jumps to the other railing and down with Barton's men. He begins to TAKE THEM DOWN, even goes as far as throwing one off. A few more enter, FIRING. CAPTAIN AMERICA grabs a  big fuckin' gun and jumps back up to his position, firing down at them.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE ­ DAY

[The gunfight has gone down, but more of Barton's men enter and are taken by Fury, who is confused as to why they keep coming.]

NICK FURY: They are not getting through here, so what the hell…

[Suddenly, Barton LOOSES an arrow down to the bridge and EXPLODES critical spots. Barton releases a multi-tipped arrow towards Fury, but instead hits his command desk, right above a USB OUTLETS. Fury FIRES at Barton, but is already gone. The arrow then self- activates and inserts itself into the outlets, hacking every single monitor and main frame. The hacking causes Engine 1 to shut off. Suddenly, the HELICARRIER begins to DANGEROUSLY TILT to one side.]

AGENT JASPER SITWELL (O.S.): Sir, we've lost all power in Engine 1.

NICK FURY: It's Barton. He took out our systems. He's headed for the detention level. Does anybody copy?

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. LOWER EQUIPMENT ROOM, CARRIER- DAY

[Still shaken by the HULK ordeal, Natasha sits there, rocking back and forth, after crying for a while. Summoning back all her coolness, she touches her EARPIECE.]

NATASHA: This is Agent Romanoff. I copy.

[Natasha SPRINGS up and runs for Barton.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE ­ DAY

[IRON MAN begins to push the rotor using BOOSTERS from his boots.]

NICK FURY (V.O.): Stark, we're losing altitude.

IRON MAN: Yeah. Noticed.

[The rotors start propelling faster and faster as IRON MAN'S BOOSTERS get more and more bright. On the other side, CAPTAIN AMERICA continuously shoots at Barton's men. Blinking at the wrong moment, CAPTAIN AMERICA loses the upper hand and SLIDES off the railing, but grabs onto a LOOSE CABLE.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION ­ DAY

[Thor runs into the detention section where he finds Loki, escaping.]

THOR: NO!

[Thor CHARGES at his brother. Loki walks up to him and CROUCHES down to attack. THOR ONLY GOES THROUGH HIM. The false Loki dissipates into nothingness. THE REAL LOKI comes out from behind the cell door, which closes on THOR, locking him up. Loki smiles.]

LOKI: Are you ever not going to fall for that?

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. LOWER EQUIPMENT ROOM, CARRIER ­ DAY

[Barton walks alone down the catwalk. In a lightning fast move, Barton nocks an arrow, and points it at NATASHA. A hand-to-hand fight ensues. Natasha CRAWLS her way around Barton, making Barton to drop his bow, but pulls out a KNIFE on her.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION ­ DAY

[Thor, in a fit of anger, SLAMS MJÖLNIR onto the glass cell. To his surprise, the cell door only CRACKS, but violently SHAKES the ship. Loki stands there in caution, as does his GUARDING SOLDIER.]

LOKI: (smiles; walks over to the CONTROL PANEL) The humans think us immortal. Should we test that?

[Suddenly, GUARDING SOLDIER falls down like a tree. AGENT COULSON stands there, holding PHASE 2 WEAPON PROTOTYPE.]

AGENT PHIL COULSON: Move away, please. 

[Loki moves away from the switch.]

AGENT PHIL COULSON: You like this? We started working on the prototype after you sent THE DESTROYER. Even I don't know what it does. Do you wanna find out?

[A LOUD GASP. AGENT COULSON IS IMPALED THROUGH THE HEART. THE REAL LOKI STANDS BEHIND COULSON.]

THOR: Nooo!

[Loki sends Agent Coulson against the wall. Agent Coulson slumps down, breathing fast. Loki makes his way to the control switch. He gives his brother one last look. Thor looks at him, hopeful. Loki opens the HATCH. Thor still hopes. LOKI HITS THE BUTTON AND DROPS THOR OUT OF THE SHIP.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. LOWER EQUIPMENT ROOM, CARRIER ­ DAY

[Barton and Natasha continue attacking each other. Natasha KICKBOXES Barton's face. Feeling that, Barton takes a SWING at her, but she grabs his arm, TWISTING it. BARTON WRITHES IN PAIN. Using his other arm, he tosses the knife over and begins to SLASH at Natasha. She dodges every move, but finds herself in a LOCK HOLD with him. As he forces the knife down, she BITES his wrist. Barton lets go of the knife. Natasha WRAPS her legs around his neck, FLIPS him over and arm LOCKS him. She SLAMS his head into a pipes rail. Barton goes down, hard. He looks up her, almost coming to his real senses.]

BARTON: Natasha…

[Natasha COLDCOCKS him. Barton is out.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. SKY

[Thor, trapped in the glass cage, BOUNCES off the JUMBLING cell pod. As it draws closer to land, Thor tries to swing at glass, but misses. Land draws closer. In a final attempt before crashing, Thor positions himself onto the glass door and LEAPFROGS just as the cage is about to hit the ground. The cell CRASHES into the shore as Thor crashes out into the meadow.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION ­ DAY

[Loki has no remorse as he looks down. He closes the hatch and proceeds to leave. A WEAK VOICE.]

AGENT PHIL COULSON: You're gonna lose.

LOKI: (TURNING) Am I?

AGENT PHIL COULSON: It's in your nature.

LOKI: Your heroes are scattered, your floating fortress falls from the sky...where is my disadvantage?

AGENT PHIL COULSON: You lack conviction.

LOKI: I don't think I…

[AGENT COULSON SHOOTS LOKI WITH HIS PHASE 2 WEAPON PROTOTYPE, CAUSING LOKI TO BE BLOWN THROUGH THE WALL BEHIND HIM.]

AGENT PHIL COULSON: So that's what it does.

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE ­ DAY

[Back in the bridge, Fury sees on his VIEWSCREEN that the hatch has been open. Knowing Agent Coulson was sent there, he goes to.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE ­ DAY

[IRON MAN continuously SPINS Engine 3, giving it all he has. THE ROTORS ARE PROPELLING PROPERLY AND FAST. The HELICARRIER LEVELS itself.]

INSIDE THE SUIT

TONY: Cap, I need the lever!

STEVE (V.O.): I need a minute here!

TONY: Lever. Now!

[Tony lets go of the rotors. They spin by themselves. Tony is then caught in one. He is now fucked. IRON MAN slips into the rotors, getting chewed up.]

EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE ­ DAY

[CAPTAIN AMERICA CLIMBS up the loose cable and reaches the railing. BARTON'S MAN opens fire once more. CAPTAIN AMERICA pulls himself up and finally PULLS the lever. A VENT opens up from Engine 3. IRON MAN falls out, but the suit heavily damaged, hardly keeping him up. IRON MAN heads for Cap. BARTON'S MAN turns his AIM to IRON MAN, who TACKLES him into the wall. IRON MAN rolls over, tired. Cap lets out a sigh of relief.]

OUTSIDE THE HELICARRIER

[The carrier that brought Barton and his team now leaves, taking Loki and his scepter. The carrier flies into the distance.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION ­ DAY

[Fury runs in finding Agent Coulson still alive, barely.]

AGENT PHIL COULSON: Sorry, boss. They got rabbited.

NICK FURY: Just stay awake. EYES ON ME!

AGENT PHIL COULSON: No. I'm clocked out here.

NICK FURY: Not an option.

AGENT PHIL COULSON: It's okay, boss. This was never going to work... if they didn't have something... to…

[Agent Coulson looks away. Sighs his last breath. Nick Fury looks on grimly at Coulson. The medical team arrives.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE ­ DAY

NICK FURY (V.O.): Agent Coulson is down.

[Agent Hill is being treated for a gash on her head, listens on her headset, standing up.]

SHIELD AGENT (V.O.): Paramedics are on their way.

NICK FURY (V.O.): They're here.

INT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE ­ DAY 

[Steve and Tony listen in as well.]

NICK FURY (V.O.): They called it.

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE ­ LATER

[Fury gathers Tony and Steve back into the briefing room, everyone there has a look as if in a daze. A look of numb shock is shown on their devastated faces.]

NICK FURY: These were in Phil Coulson's jacket. Guess he never did get you to sign them.

[Fury throws Coulson's CAPTAIN AMERICA TRADING CARDS on the table towards Steve. Steve picks them up, STAINED WITH BLOOD.]

NICK FURY: We're dead in the air up here. Our communications, location of the cube, Banner, Thor. I got nothing for you. Lost my one good eye. Maybe I had that coming. (A BEAT) Yes, we were going to build an arsenal with the Tesseract. I never put all my chips on that number though, because I was playing something even riskier. There was an idea, Stark knows this, called THE AVENGERS INITIATIVE. The idea was to bring together a group of remarkable people, see if they could become something more. See if they could work together when we needed them to, to fight the battles that we never could. Phil Coulson died still believing in that idea, in heroes.

[Tony gets up and walks off, not wanting to hear it anymore.]

NICK FURY: Well, it's an old fashioned notion.

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. MEADOW ­ DAY

[Thor walks out far into the meadow. He looks down. MJÖLNIR.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. ABANDONED BUILDING ­ DAY

[Banner wakes up, in human form. He looks around and sees he is IN A PILE OF RUBBLE and looks up at the OPEN CEILING HE CRASHED IN. AND IS COMPLETELY NAKED. A SECURITY GUARD stands there, amazed.]

SECURITY GUARD: You fell out of the sky.

BANNER (COMING TO): Did I hurt anybody? 

SECURITY GUARD: There's nobody around here to get hurt. You did scare the hell out of some pigeons though.

BANNER: Lucky.

SECURITY GUARD: Or just good aim. You were awake when you fell.

BANNER: You saw?

SECURITY GUARD: The whole thing, right through the ceiling. Big and green and buck ass nude. Here…

[He throws Banner a pair of big pants. Banner pulls on his pants.]

SECURITY GUARD: I didn't think those would fit you until you shrunk down to a regular size fella.

BANNER: Thank you.

SECURITY GUARD: Are you an alien? 

BANNER: What?

SECURITY GUARD: From outer space, an alien?

BANNER: No.

SECURITY GUARD: Well then, son, you've got a condition.

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER MEDICAL ROOM ­ DAY

[Barton is strapped down. Natasha watches over him as Barton tries to shake off Loki's mind control.]

NATASHA: Clint, you're gonna be alright.

CLINT BARTON: You know that? Is that what you know? I got...I gotta go in though. I gotta flush him out.

NATASHA: We don't have that long, it's gonna take time.

CLINT BARTON: I don't understand. Have you ever had someone take your brain and play? Pull you out and send something else in? Do you know what it's like to be unmade?

NATASHA: You know that I do.

CLINT BARTON: Why am I back? How did you get him out?

NATASHA: Cognitive recalibration. I hit you really hard in the head.

CLINT BARTON: Thanks. (Natasha unfastens the RESTRAINTS) Tasha, how many agents?

NATASHA: Don't. Don't do that to yourself, Clint. This is Loki. This is monsters and magic and nothing we were ever trained for.

CLINT BARTON: Loki, he got away?

NATASHA: Yeah. I don't suppose you know where?

CLINT BARTON: I didn't need to know. I didn't ask. He's gonna make his play soon though. Today.

NATASHA: We gotta stop him.

CLINT BARTON: Yeah? Who's we?

NATASHA: I don't know. Whoever's left.

CLINT BARTON: Well, if I put an arrow in Loki's eyesocket, I'd sleep better I suppose.

NATASHA: Now you sound like you.

[Natasha sits next to her partner and friend.]

CLINT BARTON: But you don't. You're a spy, not a soldier. Now you want to wade into a war. Why? What did Loki do to you?

NATASHA: He didn't, I just… (SHE PAUSES)

CLINT BARTON: Natasha.

NATASHA: I've been compromised. I got red in my ledger. I'd like to wipe it out.

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION ­ DAY

[Tony look at the empty cell container. He stands not saying a word. Steve walks in.]

STEVE: Was he married?

TONY: No. There was a uh...cellist, I think.

STEVE: I'm sorry. He seemed like a good man.

TONY: He was an idiot.

STEVE: Why? For believing?

TONY: For taking on Loki alone.

STEVE: He was doing his job.

TONY: He was out of his league. He should have waited. He should have…

STEVE: Sometimes there isn't a way out, Tony.

TONY: (WALKS AWAY) Right. How did that work for him?

STEVE: Is this the first time you've lost a soldier?

TONY: (turns around sharply) WE ARE NOT SOLDIERS! I am not marching to Fury's fife!

STEVE: Neither am I! He's got the same blood on his hands as Loki does. Right now we've got to put that aside and get this done. Now Loki needs a power source, if we can put together a list…

TONY: (looking at the blood stained wall) He made it personal.

STEVE: That's not the point.

TONY: That is the point. That's Loki's point. He hit us all right where we live. Why?

STEVE: To tear us apart.

TONY: He had to conquer his greed, but he knows he has to take us out to win, right? That's what he wants. He wants to beat us and he wants to be seen doing it. He wants an audience.

STEVE: Right, I caught his act at Stuttengard.

TONY: Yeah. That's just a preview, this is opening night. Loki's a full-tilt diva. He wants flowers, he wants parades, he wants a monument built in the skies with his name plastered… (PAUSE) Sonofabitch!

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. STARK TOWER ­ DAY

[Selvig works around the CMS device that has already been set- upon the rooftop of Tony's tower.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER MEDICAL ROOM ­ DAY

[Steve walks in full uniform. Natasha looks at him, unprepared.]

STEVE: Time to go.

NATASHA: Go where?

STEVE: I'll tell you on the way. Can you fly one of those jets?

[Barton walks out of the restroom. Looks at Cap.]

CLINT BARTON: I can.

[Steve looks at Natasha and she nods her head to confirm Barton's on their side.]

STEVE: You got a suit?

CLINT BARTON: Yeah.

STEVE: Then suit up.

MONTAGE

[KRAKAKABOOM! A blinding BOLT OF LIGHTNING strikes down from above, colliding on MJÖLNIR. The explosion is massive. THE MIGHTY THOR.]

[CAPTAIN AMERICA pulls on his HELMET and SHIELD.]

[Tony WELDS his IRON MAN helmet. LIGHT slips down over IRON MAN's eye holes.]

[BLACK WIDOW attaches a GLOVE GAUNTLET with her rounds on her wrist. A BLUE LIGHT CHARGES.]

[HAWKEYE slips on his QUIVER of arrows.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT/INT. QUINJET ­ DAY

[Cap, Widow and Hawkeye walk towards and into the QUINJET. A YOUNG SHIELD PILOT looks and stands in their way.]

YOUNG SHIELD PILOT: You are not authorized to be here…

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Son... just don't.

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE ­ DAY

[Fury looks the window of the ship, contemplating. Agent Hill walks up to him, knowing.]

AGENT MARIA HILL: Sir.

NICK FURY: Agent Hill?

AGENT MARIA HILL: Those cards, they were in Coulson's locker, not in his jacket.

NICK FURY: They needed the push. (holding Coulson's cards)

[A LOUD NOISE SCREECHES. Fury looks out to see IRON MAN flying off as well as the QUINJET.]

NICK FURY: They found it. Get our communications back up, whatever you have to do. I want eyes on everything.

AGENT MARIA HILL: Yes, sir.

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. NEW YORK CITY SKYLINE - STARK TOWER ­ DAY

[IRON MAN arrives at STARK TOWER where Selvig, ACTIVATES the CMS device, holding the Tesseract.]

JARVIS: Sir, I took off the arc reactor. The device is already self-sustained.

TONY: Shut it down, Dr. Selvig.

SELVIG: It's too late! It can't stop now. He wants to show us something! A new universe.

IRON MAN: Okay.

[IRON MAN aims his hands toward the CMS and FIRES. The energy from his boosters SHATTERS with a deafening CRACK! Selvig falls backwards. DOWN BELOW, CITIZENS OF NEW YORK look up at STARK TOWER. IRON MAN stares in disbelief at the CMS ... unharmed.]

JARVIS: The barrier is pure energy. It's unbreachable. The Mark VII is not ready to be deployed.

TONY: Skip the spinning rims. We're on the clock.

[TONY lands his SUIT and goes through the gauntlet and unsuits him. LOKI looks up at him, smiling. They proceed to walk into the penthouse.]

INT. STARK PENTHOUSE ­ DAY

[Loki walks in, holding the scepter. Tony casually walks down the steps, towards the bar.]

LOKI: Please tell me you're going to appeal to my humanity.

TONY: Uh...actually, I'm planning to threaten you.

LOKI: You should have left your armor on for that.

TONY: Yeah, it's seen a bit of mileage. You've got the blue stick of destiny. Would you like a drink?

LOKI: Stalling me won't change anything.

TONY: No, no, no! Threatening. No drink? You sure? I'm having one.

LOKI: The CHITAURI are coming, nothing will change that. What have I to fear?

TONY: THE AVENGERS. (Loki looks at him, confused) It's what we call ourselves, sort of like a team. `EARTH'S MIGHTIEST HEROES' type of thing.

LOKI: Yes, I've met them.

TONY: (SMILING) Yeah, takes us a while to get any traction, I'll give you that one. But, let's do a head count here. Your brother, the demi-God; a super soldier, a living legend who kind of lives up to the legend; a man with breath-taking anger management issues; a couple of master assassins, and you, big fella, you've managed to piss off every single one of them.

LOKI: That was the plan.

TONY: Not a great plan. When they come, and they will, they'll come for you.

[From underneath the bar table, Tony pulls on COLANTOTTE BRACELETS, a honing device.]

LOKI: I have an army.

TONY: We have a HULK.

LOKI: I thought the beast had wandered off.

TONY: You're missing the point. There's no throne, there is no version of this, where you come out on top. Maybe your army comes and maybe it's too much for us, but it's all on you. Because if we can't protect the Earth, you can be damned well sure we'll avenge it.

LOKI: (slowly walks up to him; raising the scepter) How will your friends have time for me,when they're so busy fighting you?

[Loki TAPS Tony on the chest with his scepter. PING! Nothing. Confused, Loki tires again. PING! NOTHING.]

LOKI: It should work.

TONY: Well, performance issues. You know? Not uncommon. One out of five…

[In anger, Loki GRABS Tony by the throat and FLINGS him across the room.]

TONY: Jarvis. Anytime now.

[Loki grabs Tony by the throat again.]

LOKI: You will all fall before me.

[LOKI THROWS TONY OUT THE WINDOW. Tony FREEFALLS down the tower. From behind Loki, an elevator opens and a RED POD SHOOTS out. The pod LASER SIGNALS the COLANTOTTE BRACELETS on Tony. The POD begins to TRANSFORM into the MARK VII suit. It LATCHES onto Tony. IRON MAN. The suit FLIES up before he hits the ground or the gazing people. Loki looks up, angry.]

IRON MAN: And there's one other person you pissed off! His name was Phil.

[Loki raises the scepter. IRON MAN FIRES at Loki, sending him on his ass.]

EXT. STARK TOWER ­ DAY

[Selvig looks up at the sky. The Tesseract's energy BEAMS into the sky. The beam then forms a VORTEX, which then opens up ANOTHER PORTAL.]

EXT. VASTNESS OF SPACE

[A hole in space rips open, and from it, the CHITAURI ARMY SPILLS out in FLYING CHARIOTS, carrying ENERGY RIFLES with a bayonet on the end.]

INSIDE THE SUIT

TONY: Right. Army.

[IRON MAN flies up towards the portal. From his shoulders, a miniature multiple rocket launcher, pops out and FIRES. Like the JERICHO MISSILE, several targets are taken down unlike no missile. It's useless. THOUSANDS OF CHITAURI FLY OUT. IRON MAN flies towards the city.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. MANHATTAN ­ DAY

[The CHITAURI UNLEASH. New Yorkers fill the streets, staring at the fire fight in the distance. BOOM!!! The CHITAURI unleashes BLASTS as it goes, blowing up cars, setting storefronts aflame. AN EXPLOSION RIPS OUT THE WINDOWS OF THE TOP CORNER OF BUILDINGS. FLAME AND STONE RAIN DOWN. A DOMINO-EFFECT OF EXPLOSIONS RIPPLING ACROSS THE BRIDGE.]

EXT. STARK TOWER ­ DAY

[Loki walks onto the balcony as the SOUNDS of the CHITAURI rings out. He admires his soon to be kingdom. THOR LANDS ON THE TOWER. Loki turns to his ENEMY.]

THOR: Loki! Turn off the Tesseract or I'll destroy it!

LOKI: You can't. There is no stopping it. There is only the war!

THOR: So be it.

[Loki and Thor rush at each other. They and their weapons collide. The two battle -- Loki unleashing another pent-up rage and jealousy, Thor having no choice but to defend himself.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. MANHATTAN ­ DAY

[SOLDIERS AND COPS have taken positions covering the streets. They see from the sky, IRON MAN leading a trail of CHITAURI towards his tower.]

EXT. SKY ­ DAY

[The QUINJET BOOMS into the city.]

BLACK WIDOW (V.O.): Stark, we're heading north east. INSIDE THE SUIT

IRON MAN: What, did you stop for drive-thru? Swing up PARK, I'm gonna lay 'em out for you.

EXT. STARK TOWER ­ DAY

[IRON MAN BANKS around his tower. Sees Thor and Loki still going at it. IRON MAN SWOOPS down the street, causing a CHITAURI to crash. Flying up, IRON MAN puts the following CHITAURI in view of the QUINJET. BLACK WIDOW takes out machine gun and FIRES at the CHITAURI.]

INSIDE THE SUIT

JARVIS: Sir, we have more incoming.

TONY: Fine. Let's keep them occupied.

[IRON MAN heads back to the portal.]

EXT. STARK TOWER ­ DAY

[Thor and Loki battle savagely. Loki fires ENERGY from the scepter, sending Thor sliding across the floor.]

INT. QUINJET ­ DAY

[HAWKEYE looks out to his left window, finding a target.]

HAWKEYE: Yeah.

BLACK WIDOW: See them.

[HAWKEYE BANKS the jet towards STARK TOWER. Aims the MINIGUN at Loki. Loki AIMS the scepter at the QUINJET and FIRES A BLAST OF ENERGY. Thor gets to his feet, TACKLING Loki down hard. THE QUINJET is soon caught on fire. HAWKEYE maneuvers one wing of the jet. They SPIN and SLOW. DROPPING OUT OF THE AIR AS IT PASSES OVER SKYSCRAPERS. Then... they SLAM into the street.]

INT. QUINJET ­ DAY

[With everyone okay, HAWKEYE and BLACK WIDOW unfasten their seatbelts and open the ramp. CAPTAIN AMERICA runs down, followed by HAWKEYE and BLACK WIDOW. Each one has their respected weapons in hand.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. FOUR WAY STREET ­ DAY

[The TRIO arrives in the middle of a four-way street. Suddenly, the city LURCHES to a stop. A DEEP, PRIMAL RAGE BELLOWS OUT. With that roar, a SHADOW comes over them.]

EXT. VASTNESS OF SPACE

[From the portal, a FUCKING CHITAURI LEVIATHAN FLIES OUT! Carrying hundreds of SOLDIERS, the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN PASSES OVER the TRIO.]

EXT. BRIDGE STREET ­ DAY

[They look up, out of their element. From both sides, CHITAURI SOLDIERS CLING OFF and attach themselves to the sides of the buildings, sliding down. Some CRASH into these buildings and begin FIRING from their ENERGY RIFLES at innocent people.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Stark, are you seeing this?

INSIDE THE SUIT

TONY: I'm seeing, still working on believing. Where's Banner? Has he shown up yet?

CAPTAIN AMERICA (V.O.): Banner?

TONY: Just keep me posted. Jarvis, find me a soft spot.

[IRON MAN quietly flies behind and parallel with the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN.]

EXT. STARK TOWER ­ DAY

[Thor holds down Loki's face straight ahead, forcing him to watch the city falling to ash.]

THOR: Look at this! Look around you! You think this madness will end with your rule?

LOKI: (tries to look away) It's too late. It's too late to stop it.

THOR: No. We can. Together.

[Loki looks at his brother, showing a sign of hope. Then... Loki stabs Thor with a small knife. Thor keels over.]

LOKI: Sentiment.

[Thor gets up, KICKS Loki and lifts him into the air. Thor then SLAMS him down, hard. Loki, bleeding, rolls over the edge. Thor looks down. LOKI IS RIDING ON A FLYING CHARIOT. DOZENS of CHITAURI follow his lead.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. BRIDGE STREET ­ DAY

[The TRIO runs behind upside taxis. They look up and see Loki taking his band down the street and FIRES at the street IN A CHAIN OF EXPLOSIONS. SMASHING CARS AND HURLING PEOPLE AS IT GOES IT GOES OFF IN ONE FINAL CONFLAGRATION. TERRIFIED PEOPLE running from Loki, looking over their shoulders, coming straight at us. CAPTAIN AMERICA looks down the bridge.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Those people need assistance down there.

[CHITAURI SOLDIERS that have landed near them and begin FIRING at them. BLACK WIDOW pulls both pistols and FIRES. Turns to Cap.]

BLACK WIDOW: We got this. It's good. Go!

CAPTAIN AMERICA: (AT HAWKEYE) You think you can hold them off?

HAWKEYE: Captain. (pulls a trigger on his bow; an arrow is mechanically CHOSEN) It would be my genuine pleasure.

[HAWKEYE shoots an ARROW into the creature's head, gaining a few seconds for CAPTAIN AMERICA as he falls down the bridge, followed by an EXPLOSION. Cap races over to the plaza, jumping over dozens of EXPLODING cars. THE FIRST AVENGER RUNS LIKE A FUCKING CHEETAH. HAWKEYE runs over a bus full of people. From the windows, SMALL CHILDREN are held by their parents for HAWKEYE to pull them out to safety. He runs over to the jammed door and JERKILY opens it. People begin to run out. BLACK WIDOW empties out her CLIPS. HAWKEYE fires ARROWS into the ranks of the CHITAURI, hitting his mark each time he shoots.]

BLACK WIDOW: Just like BUDAPEST all over again!

HAWKEYE: You and I remember Budapest very differently.

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. MANHATTAN ­ DAY

[The COPS continuously fire at the flying chariots. It's pretty pointless. A YOUNG COP runs over to his POLICE SERGEANT.]

YOUNG COP: We need to get out! They gotta bring the National Guard!

POLICE SERGEANT: National Guard? Does the army know what's happening here?

YOUNG COP: Do we?

[CAPTAIN AMERICA jumps in front of them. They look up at this ridiculous looking man.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: I need men in these buildings. There are people inside that can run into the line of fire. You take them through the basement or through the subway. You keep them off the streets. I need a perimeter as far back as 39th.

POLICE SERGEANT: Why the hell should I take orders from you?

[Suddenly, an EXPLOSION comes up from behind Cap. An ENERGY BLAST is blocked by his SHIELD. TWO CHITAURI SOLDIERS attack. The cops watch in shock as CAPTAIN AMERICA FIGHTS them off with ease. The Sergeant turns to his officer.]

POLICE SERGEANT: I need men in those buildings, lead the people down and away from the streets. I need a perimeter as far back as 39th.

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. SKY LINE ­ DAY

[IRON MAN swerves around a building and faces the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN. He pulls out his miniature multiple rocket launcher and FIRES. The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN ROARS in annoyance. The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN turns to him.]

IRON MAN: (TO JARVIS) We got his attention. What the hell is step two?!

[IRON MAN flies away.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. BRIDGE STREET ­ DAY

[HAWKEYE TRIPS a CHITAURI SOLDIER and RAMS an arrow down its throat. BLACK WIDOW gets her hands on an ENERGY RIFLE and STICKFIGHTS the hell out of them. CAPTAIN AMERICA joins back in and using his SHIELD, SWAPS and WHACKS oncoming CHITAURI SOLDIERS. It's all too much on them, until… Lightning strikes down from the sky, channeling the blast, firing the electricity out at the CHITAURI SOLDIERS around them. They're blasted back in a massive shockwave. The CHITAURI SOLDIERS convulse, drop dead to the ground. THOR TOUCHES DOWN.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: What's the story upstairs?

THOR: The power surrounding the cube is impenetrable.

IRON MAN (V.O.): Thor is right. We gotta deal with these guys.

BLACK WIDOW: How do we do this?

CAPTAIN AMERICA: As a team.

THOR: I have unfinished business with Loki.

HAWKEYE: Yeah, get in line.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Save it. Loki's gonna keep this fight focused on us and that's what we need. Without him these things could run wild. We got Stark up top, he's gonna need us…

[Just then, BANNER ARRIVES ON A SMALL MOTORBIKE. Getting off, he looks around the city.]

BANNER: So, this all seems horrible.

BLACK WIDOW: I've seen worse.

BANNER: Sorry.

BLACK WIDOW: No. We could use a little worse.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Stark? We got him.

IRON MAN (V.O.): Banner?

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Just like you said.

INSIDE THE SUIT

TONY: Then tell him to suit up. I'm bringing the party to you.

[IRON MAN comes out from behind a building. The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN follows, impatiently.]

EXT. BRIDGE STREET ­ DAY

[The rest of the AVENGERS look up, getting ready and standing still.

BLACK WIDOW: I... I don't see how that's a party…

[IRON MAN SWOOPS down the street. The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN also swoops down, BARRELING down the street like a FREIGHT TRAIN that keeps building and building its intensity.Banner looks behind. Cap looks at him. Banner begins to walk towards the monster.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Dr. Banner. Now might be a really good time for you to get angry.

BANNER: That's my secret, Captain. I'm always angry.

[Banner's body starts to swell and stretch and harden. GREEN SHOOTS THROUGH HIS BODY. THE HULK. Aaaannndddd.........SSSMMMAAASSSHHH!!!! HULK POPS the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN IN THE NOSE. THE CREATURE FLIPS OVER A 360. IRON MAN, in mid-flight, extends his arm out and a ROCKET, ready to shoot. IRON MAN FIRES -- the rocket hits a SOFT SPOT ­ LARGE CHITAURI LEVIATHAN are BLOWN COMPLETELY AWAY. Real pain from the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN. Other pieces of meat CATCH FIRE and withdraw... SIZZLE as they hit the pavement. CAPTAIN AMERICA raises his SHIELD to block them.]

[From above and on the buildings, the CHITAURI ARMY watches in horror as a group of EARTH'S MIGHTIEST HEROES FIND THEMSELVES UNITED AGAINST A COMMON THREAT. TO FIGHT THE FOES NO SINGLE SUPER HERO COULD WITHSTAND! THE AVENGERS ASSEMBLE!]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. SKY ­ DAY

[Loki watches below, motionless.]

LOKI: Send the rest.

EXT. VASTNESS OF SPACE

[From the portal, THOUSANDS MORE OF CHITAURI SOLDIERS AND EVEN MORE CHITAURI LEVIATHANS FLY OUT!]

EXT. BRIDGE STREET ­ DAY

[THE AVENGERS look up. Way out of their fucking element.]

BLACK WIDOW: Guys.

IRON MAN: Call it, Cap.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Alright, listen up. Until we can close that portal up there, we're gonna use containment. Barton, I want you on that roof, eyes on everything. Call out patterns and strays. Stark, you got the perimeter. Anything gets more than three blocks out, you turn it back or your turn it to ash.

HAWKEYE: Wanna give me a lift?

IRON MAN: Right. Better clench up, LEGOLAS.

[IRON MAN lifts HAWKEYE up to the building.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Thor, you've gotta try and bottleneck that portal. Slow them down. You've got the lightning. Light the bastards up. (Thor flies up; to Natasha) You and me, we stay here on the ground, keep the fighting here. And Hulk.SMASH.

[THE HULK SMILES A MOST MAGNIFICENT GRIN AND LEAPS, SOARING HIGH UP INTO THE NEAREST BUILDING, HULK RUNS UP THE WALL HITS SEVERAL CHITAURI SOLDIERS, SNAPPING IN HALF. HE DIVES TOWARDS A BUILDING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE STREET, THROWING THE DEAD CHITAURI SOLDIERS TOWARDS OTHER SOLDIERS. The CHITAURI SOLDIERS fire at him. THE HULK BACKHANDS THEM, SEIZES THEM AND WITH RAW POWER, THROWS THEM DOWN. IN HIS MOST POWERFUL LEAP YET, THE HULK FLIES UP AND IS IN THE MIDDLE OF A FLYING CHARIOT TRAFFIC JAM, TO WHICH HE SMACKS THEM OUT OF ALTITUDE.]

EXT. EMPIRE STATE BUILDING ­ DAY

[Thor grabs onto the tower. Raises MJÖLNIR and KRAKAKABOOM! A BLINDING BOLT OF LIGHTNING strikes down from above, colliding on MJÖLNIR. THOR AIMS THIS MASSIVE SHOCKWAVE TOWARDS THE PORTAL. THOR CHANNELS THE BLAST AND FIRES THE ELECTRICITY OUT AT THE CHITAURI SOLDIERS FLYING OUT OF THE PORTAL. THEY'RE BLASTED BACK IN A MASSIVE SHOCKWAVE. THE CHITAURI SOLDIERS CONVULSE, DROP DEAD TO THE GROUND. HE EVEN RIPS THE SHIT OUT OF A CHITAURI LEVIATHAN, WHICH THEN FUCKING EXPLODES.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE ­ DAY

[Back in the bridge, Fury sees on his VIEWSCREEN the destruction going on in NEW YORK. Agent Hill walks up to him.]

AGENT MARIA HILL: Sir. The council is on.

[OH SHIT. Fury presses his screen.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. ROOFTOP BUILDING ­ DAY

[Atop the rooftop, HAWKEYE fires ARROWS into the streaming flow of the CHITAURI RIDERS, hitting his mark each time. Hell, he even AIMS his bow behind him, WITHOUT LOOKING and releases the arrow, EXPLODING a RIDER.]

HAWKEYE: Stark. You got a lot of strings sticking to your tail.

IRON MAN: Just try and keep them off the streets.

HAWKEYE: Well, they can't bank worth a damn. Find a tight corner.

IRON MAN: I will roger that.

[IRON MAN does so and leads towards TIGHT CORNERS and in HAWKEYE'S view, who fires arrow upon and arrow, EXPLODING the CHITAURI RIDERS. IRON MAN keeps leading CHITAURI RIDERS UNDER TUNNELS, THROUGH OPEN PARKING GARAGES. He looks back. None left.]

INSIDE THE SUIT

TONY: Nice call. What else you got?

HAWKEYE (V.O.): Well, Thor's taking on a squadron down on 6th.

TONY: And he didn't invite me?

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - CONFERENCE ROOM ­ DAY

[We are looking INTO a conference room where office workers sit around a table. But the NOISE has caught one worker's eye, then another, and soon they are all rising, stepping to the window, mesmerized by what lies beyond. WORKERS' POVA CHITAURI LEVIATHAN SWIMS right in front of them.]

EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - CONFERENCE ROOM ­ DAY

[Suddenly, another NOISE catches the worker's attention. THE HULK CRASHES THROUGH THEIR FLOOR. SLASHES HIS THROUGH THE ROOM, POUNDING AWAY AND JUMPS OUT ONTO THE JAW OF THE CHITAURI LEVIATHAN. THE CHITAURI LEVIATHAN BEGINS TO HEAD DOWN, TRYING TO WAVE OFF THE HULK.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. BRIDGE STREET ­ DAY

[BLACK WIDOW, using the ENERGY RIFLE, is taken off her feet by a CHITAURI SOLDIER. She TIRESOMELY takes it down by cutting its throat. She grabs the ENERGY RIFLE, turns to attack. Cap stands there, holding his SHIELD. She slumps back, tired.]

BLACK WIDOW: Captain, none of this is gonna mean a damn thing if we don't close that portal.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Our biggest guns couldn't touch it.

BLACK WIDOW: Well, maybe it's not about guns. (gestures the flying CHARIOTS)

CAPTAIN AMERICA: You wanna get up there, you're gonna need a ride.

BLACK WIDOW: I got a ride. I could use a lift though.

[BLACK WIDOW backs up giving herself a running start. Cap lifts and angles his SHIELD.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Are you sure about this?

BLACK WIDOW: Yeah. It's gonna be fun.

[BLACK WIDOW RUNS AT CAPTAIN AMERICA. BLACK WIDOW DOES A PARKOUR MOVE, USING HER FEET TO RUN UP THE CAR AND JUMPS UP ON CAP'S SHIELD, WHO GIVES HER A BOOST WITH THE SHIELD. SHE GRABS ONTO A FLYING CHARIOT.]

[BLACK WIDOW climbs onto the chariot and CUTS the turret shooter's linkage to it. She then JUMPS on the rider and STICKS her knives into his nervous system. She gets him to BANK over a building.]

[IRON MAN arrives and SHOOTS any other CHITAURI RIDERS following her. He makes his way down to CAPTAIN AMERICA, who fights off more CHITAURI SOLDIERS. IRON MAN points his HAND BOOSTERS at his SHIELD. The energy comes off and Cap uses it as a REFLECTION BEAM and takes down nearby CHITAURI.]

[From above them, HAWKEYE sends down remaining arrows. He sends one across the street, taking down a CHITAURI RIDER following IRON MAN.]

[Finally, we have THOR and HULK fight on top the back of the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN, tearing apart and fighting SOLDIERS. HULK BREAKS OFF A MASSIVE PIECE OF ARMOR AND SLAMS IT DOWN ONTO THE SPINE OF THE CHITAURI LEVIATHAN. Summoning all his strength he, THOR RAISES, DRAWING LIGHTNING TO IT FROM ALL SIDES, AND BRINGS IT DOWN WITH A FINAL, TERRIBLE BLOW--]

INT. HISTORY MUSEUM ­ DAY

[The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN CRASHES into a history museum. DEAD. THOR and HULK stand on the BACK of the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN after bringing it down. They stand still, admiring. HULK PUNCHES THOR WITH HIS ENORMOUS HAND. THOR GOES FLYING. HULK SMIRKS.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. STARK TOWER ­ DAY

[SELVIG WAKES UP FROM LOKI MIND CONTROL. He looks around, confused where he is. He looks up at the sky, amazed.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. BRIDGE STREET ­ DAY

[Several HUMVEES aim their MOUNTED .50 Cal guns into the sky, FIRING and HITTING CHITAURI RIDERS. CAPTAIN AMERICA fights off a SOLDIER who is pinning him down with its energy rifle. Cap BREAKS ITS LEG. He stands up, picking up his SHIELD.]

HAWKEYE: Captain, the bank on 42nd past MADISON, they caught a lot of civilians there.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: I'm on it.

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. 42ND BANK ­ DAY

[Dozens of civilians are gathered in bank. Tension and uncertainty surround them. THREE CHITAURI SOLDIERS oversee them, pointing their weapons at them. One of them charges a BOMB. It BEEPS.]

[CAPTAIN AMERICA jumps through the window and throws his SHIELD at the CHITAURI BOMBER. The TWO CHITAURI SOLDIERS aim their rifles, but Cap heads for cover under a desk, which he KICKS at them.]

[CAPTAIN AMERICA jumps over the desk, HEADLOCKS A SOLDIER, while BACKHANDING another one over the railing. The crowd moves away. A CHITAURI SOLDIER attacks him from behind and RIPS OFF HIS HELMET. The bomb is beeping faster.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Everyone! Clear out!

[CAPTAIN AMERICA flips over the SOLDIER, grabs his SHIELD and just as the BOMB is about to GO OFF, CHITAURI BOMBER dives for, trying to stop it, but it GOES OFF, sending CAPTAIN AMERICA through the window, landing very hard on a car. The civilians look up from below. They're okay.]

EXT. OUTSIDE THE BANK ­ CONTINUOUS

[Cap gets off the car, looks around the city. Destroyed. The police and firemen arrive, pulling out those civilians he saved. A WAITRESS looks back, thankful.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE ­ DAY

[Back in the bridge, Fury sees on his VIEWSCREEN the WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL.]

WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #2: Director Fury, the council has made a decision.

NICK FURY: I recognize the council has made a decision, but given that it's a stupid ass decision, I've elected to ignore it.

WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #1: Director, you're closer than any of our subs, you scramble that jet…

NICK FURY: That is the island of Manhattan, Councilman. Until I'm certain my team can't hold it, I will not order a nuclear strike against a civilian population.

WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #1: If we don't hold them in the air, we lose everything.

NICK FURY: I send that bird out, we already have.

[Fury shuts off his viewscreen.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. MANHATTAN ­ DAY

[BLACK WIDOW, still driving the chariot with the RIDER, is hit at her side. She looks about, wondering whose ENERGY FIRE it was she looks behind.]

BLACK WIDOW: Oh. You.

[LOKI FOLLOWS IN HOT PURSUIT. They RACE DOWNWARD, trailing between buildings. They RACE MADLY, driving and dodging.]

EXT. ROOFTOP BUILDING ­ DAY

[HAWKEYE looks at BLACK WIDOW, astonished.]

HAWKEYE: Nat, what are you doing?

BLACK WIDOW (V.O.): Uh... a little help!

[HAWKEYE pulls the trigger twice, nocks an arrow, and points it at Loki, smiling.]

HAWKEYE: I've got him.

[FIRES. THE ARROW STREAKS DOWN THE CITY, STRAIGHT AT THE LOKI'S HEAD… SNATCH! LIKE A CAT, LOKI GRABS THE ARROW STRAIGHT OUT OF THE AIR...LOOKS STRAIGHT AT HAWKEYE, SMILING… BBOOOOMMM!!! THE ARROW EXPLODES IN LOKI'S FACE, CRASHING INTO THE STARK PENTHOUSE PAD.]

[BLACK WIDOW looks down and building her momentum, she JUMPS of the chariot, lands on top of STARK TOWER, rolling herself to the edge.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT/INT. STARK PENTHOUSE ­ DAY

[As Loki looks up, shocked at what just happened, THE HULK IS LEAPING UP AND KICKS LOKI, HURTLING TOWARDS THE GLASS WINDOW. He COLLAPSES as he hits the wall. THE HULK jumps in, ready to attack. Loki ROLLS himself up in a flurry of broken glass, STANDING UP TO THE HULK.]

LOKI: ENOUGH! YOU ARE, ALL OF YOU ARE BENEATH ME! I AM A GOD, YOU DULL CREATURE, AND I WILL NOT BE BULLIED…

[HULK GRABS LOKI BY THE LEGS AND SMASHES HIM AGAINST THE FLOOR REPEATEDLY AND FINALLY THROWS HIM ASIDE TO THE GROUND, FLATTENING LOKI.]

HULK: PUNY GOD.

[LOKI WHIMPERS IN PAIN.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. STARK TOWER ­ DAY

[BLACK WIDOW walks up the CMS machine. Selvig, slumped down, weakened, looks at her desperately. The Tesseract's energy is firing towards the portal, gaining in strength, at the surge of energy moving through the sky.

BLACK WIDOW: Doctor.

SELVIG: Loki's scepter, the energy...the Tesseract can't fight. You can't protect against yourself.

BLACK WIDOW: It's not your fault. You didn't know what you were doing.

SELVIG: Well, actually I think I did. I built in a safety to cut the power source.

BLACK WIDOW: Loki's scepter.

SELVIG: It might be able to close the portal. (Selvig looks down. He sees a GOLD GLEAM) And I'm looking right at it.

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. MANHATTAN ­ DAY

[THOR rides on top of chariot, SMACKING SEVERAL RIDERS with the hammer. As Thor takes the reins, a CHITAURI LEVIATHAN crashes through a building, knocking him down to where Cap is, fighting off SOLDIERS. IRON MAN flies right next to the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN and aims his LASER BOOSTER at it. Nothing.]

JARVIS: Sir, we will lose power before you cut through that shell.

[IRON MAN flies up ahead, facing the oncoming monster.]

IRON MAN: JARVIS. You ever hear the tale of Jonah?

JARVIS: I wouldn't consider him a role model.

[IRON MAN FLIES TOWARDS THE CHITAURI LEVIATHAN, UNLEASHING EVERY ARSENAL ON THE SUIT. The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN opens its mouth. IRON MAN flies in and BURSTS out the other end, making the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN collapse. IRON MAN rolls down the street. The wind is knocked out of him. He looks up with an overwhelming sigh as a SMALL BAND of CHITAURI SOLDIERS rush towards him, holding out their rifles.]

EXT. ROOFTOP BUILDING ­ DAY

[HAWKEYE turns to fire HIS LAST ARROW. Using his bow as a staff, he knocks some CHITAURI SOLDIERS, before yanking his last arrow off the dead body a CHITAURI SOLDIERS. HAWKEYE nocks his arrow, DIVES DOWN THE BUILDING and FIRES his GRAPPLING ARROW up into the side of building. Falling down, HAWKEYE finds the MOMENTUM and SWINGS himself into a building and CANNONBALLS in.]

EXT. MANHATTAN ­ DAY

[The HULK holds CHITAURI SOLDIERS by the face and SLAMS them down. More keep coming. HULK looks up. HUNDREDS OF RIDERS HOVER OVER HIM. Then... they begin to fire ENERGY BLASTS. HULK TAKES THEM LIKE HE'S RUNNING THROUGH A LIGHT RAIN. BLOCKING THE STREAM OF STREAKING BLASTS, AS THOUGH SWATTING AT BEES.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. HELICARRIER DECK ­ DAY

[A lone pilot sits in his cockpit, listening.]

WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #2: DIRECTOR FURY is no longer in command. Override order, 7 ALPHA 11.

PILOT: 7 ALPHA 11, confirmed. Prepare to takeoff.

[He ignites his engine.]

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE ­ DAY

[Back in the bridge, Agent Hill sees on her PILOT preparing to leave.]

AGENT MARIA HILL: Sir, we have a bird in motion! Anyone on the deck, we have a rogue bird! We need to shut it down! Repeat! Take off is not authorized!

EXT. HELICARRIER DECK ­ DAY

[NICK FURY RUNS OUT TO THE DECK, HOLDING A FUCKING AIRTRONIC RPG- 7. He takes AIM and FIRES, HITTING the TAIL END of the jet. The jet SKIDS OFF towards the edge. PILOT UNHARMED. Suddenly, another JET FLIES off. Fury stands there, knowing he can't do anything about it.]

NICK FURY: Stark, you hearing me? We have a missile headed straight for the city.

IRON MAN (V.O.): How long?

NICK FURY: Three minutes, at best. Stay low and wipe out the missile.

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. MANHATTAN ­ DAY

[IRON MAN fights off as many CHITAURI SOLDIERS as he sustain.]

IRON MAN: Jarvis, put everything we got into the thrusters!

JARVIS: I just did.

[IRON MAN leaves the streets and flies up into the sky.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. SKY ­ DAY

[7 ALPHA 11 arrives outside the city. He flips the switch to press the button. He presses it. THE MISSILE IS FLYING OUT TO MANHATTAN.]

7 ALPHA 11: Destination is in 2 minutes, 30 seconds mark.

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. MANHATTAN ­ DAY

[CAPTAIN AMERICA AND THOR BATTLE, SIDE TO SIDE. Cap and Thor both throw their respected weapons. Thor catches MJÖLNIR, but as Cap turns, an ENERGY BLAST strikes him down hard. Thor runs over to a broken car, swings the hammer and flips the car over and over on its side, crushing a few CHITAURI SOLDIERS. Cap tries to get up. Thor helps him back to his feet. Cap raises his SHIELD back up.]

THOR: You ready for another bout?

CAPTAIN AMERICA: What? You gettin' sleepy?

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. STARK TOWER ­ DAY

[Selvig, back in scientist mode, CLACKS away at his laptop. He nods. BLACK WIDOW grabs Loki's scepter, slowly breaks into the FORCE FIELD, almost touching the Tesseract.]

BLACK WIDOW: I can close it! Can anybody hear me? I can shut the portal down!

EXT. MANHATTAN ­ DAY

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Do it!

IRON MAN (V.O.): No, wait!

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Stark, these things are still coming!

INSIDE THE SUIT

TONY: I got a nuke coming in, it's gonna blow in less than a minute. And I know just where to put it.

EXT. SKY ­ DAY

[IRON MAN catches up, now comes at the missile from behind. The missile speeds on. IRON MAN grabs it from behind, gripping it tightly. With a mighty effort, he wrenches the rocket off its course. Steering it from behind, he accelerates quickly, flying straight up into sky, towards the portal.]

INSIDE THE SUIT

CAPTAIN AMERICA (V.O.): Stark, you know that's a one-way trip?

TONY: (TO JARVIS) Save the rest for return, J.

JARVIS: Sir. Shall I call Miss Potts?

IRON MAN: You might as well.

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. STARK JET ­ DAY

[PEPPER, along with her crew, watches on T.V., in horror, the destruction in NEW YORK. On the table, her cell is VIBRATING, with Tony's picture on it.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE ­ DAY

[Back in the bridge, every single agent holds their breath as they too watch IRON MAN fly up into the portal.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. SKY ­ DAY

[IRON MAN climbs higher and higher over the city, gaining speed, suddenly flings himself through the portal. Communications die. The suit begins to freeze. Tony looks in horror.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE ­ DAY 

[Every single agent CHEERS. Fury smiles. He tries to communicate with Tony. NOTHING.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. SPACE

[We then see Tony's horror. AN ARMADA. The black sky is filled with what must be ninety ships in a vague cluster. Most of them hang still in the air. Some move swimmingly about. IRON MAN lets go of the missile. It whistles off into the blackness as IRON MAN IDLY falls back down the portal's opening. The missile reaches the MAIN SHIP. The MAIN SHIP IMPLODES, causing the entire ARMADA to burst into a supernova, creating a spectacular heavenly display.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. MANHATTAN ­ DAY

[Suddenly, all of the CHITAURI SOLDIERS and CHITAURI LEVIATHANS KEEL OVER and begin to SHAKE, then stop. They all fall over. THE AVENGERS look up at their CONSULTANT, not sure if he'll make it through.]

EXT. STARK TOWER ­ DAY

[Still holding the scepter in hand, BLACK WIDOW shifts around, waiting.]

BLACK WIDOW: Come on, Stark…

EXT. MANHATTAN ­ DAY

[Thor and Cap see the supernova coming towards them. Thor nods to Cap.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: (to BLACK WIDOW) Close it.

EXT. STARK TOWER ­ DAY

[Without hesitating, BLACK WIDOW pulls the scepter out, the TESSERACT turns off its energy beam. The PORTAL QUICKLY CLOSES. A SMALL FIGURE is hurled backwards into the open now closed portal. IRON MAN. Plummeting to the earth.]

EXT. MANHATTAN ­ DAY

CAPTAIN AMERICA: (SMILING) Son of a gun!

[TIGHT ON IRON MAN: He keeps falling. And falling. And falling.]

EXT. MANHATTAN ­ DAY

THOR: He's not slowing down. 

[Thor swings Mjölnir around. Just as Thor flies up, THE HULK SNAGS IRON MAN OUT OF THE AIR, BOTH CRASHING AND SLIDING DOWN A BUILDING.]

EXT. BRIDGE STREET ­ DAY

[HULK throws IRON MAN off him. Thor and Cap run over to him. Thor RIPS off Tony's helmet. He appears to be dead. They stand around not sure. Then... THE HULK YELLS IN FURY. THE NOISE STARTLES TONY AWAKE.[

TONY: What the hell? What just happened? Please tell me nobody kissed me?

CAPTAIN AMERICA: (A BEAT) We won.

TONY: Alright. Hey. Alright. Good job, guys. Let's just not come in tomorrow. Let's just take a day. Have you ever tried shawarma? There's a shawarma joint about two blocks from here. I don't know what it is, but I wanna try it.

THOR: (looking up at Stark Tower) We're not finished yet..

TONY: And then shawarma after.

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. STARK PENTHOUSE ­ DAY

[Loki crawls onto the stair, looking like a piece of shit rag doll. He takes a few breathers, senses someone is behind him. He turns TO FIND THE AVENGERS STARING AT HIM, PISSED.]

LOKI: If it's all the same to you. I'll have that drink now.

[THE HULK SNORTS AT HIM.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

WEEKS LATER.

INT. SHIELD ANALYTICAL ROOM ­ DAY

[In TV news montage about THE AVENGERS, we see various reports of what happened. Some people agree that the avengers did good, protecting the city. Others believe it was their cause.]

OLD MAN (STAN LEE): Superheroes? In New York? Give me a break!

SENATOR BOYNTON: These so called heroes have to be held responsible for the destruction done to the city. This was their fight. Where are they now?

WAITRESS: What? That this was somehow their fault? Captain America saved my life. Wherever he is, wherever any of them are, I just wanna say thank you.

                                                                                                                                                                            

EXT. CENTRAL PARK ­ DAY

[The Avengers take Thor and Loki, who is handcuffed and muzzled, to a blocked area. Thor shakes hands with his team and gives Selvig a hug. Tony opens the Tesseract's case. Banner takes it out and places inside a glass tube, held by Thor. Thor gives Loki the other end, who reluctantly takes it. The Asgardians leap into the energy beam. GONE. Then, one-by-one, the group splinters off, strolling into different directions. Banner climbs in with Tony in his sportscar. Steve rides away in his Harley. Natasha and Clint climb back into SHIELD cars. They all part. For now.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. SHIELD ANALYTICAL ROOM ­ DAY

[Fury is facing once more members of the WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL.]

WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #3: Where are the Avengers?

NICK FURY: I'm not currently tracking their whereabouts. I'd say they've earned a leave of absence.

WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #2: And the Tesseract?

NICK FURY: The Tesseract is where it belongs: out of our reach.

WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #1: That's not your call.

NICK FURY: I didn't make it. I just didn't argue with the god that did.

WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #1: So you let him take it and the war criminal, Loki, who should be answering for his crimes?

NICK FURY: Oh, I think he will be.

WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #1: I don't think you understand what you've started. Letting the Avengers loose on this world. They're dangerous.

NICK FURY: They surely are. And the whole world knows it. Every world knows it.

WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #1: Was that the point of all this? A statement?

NICK FURY: A promise.

[Fury walks out, towards the bridge.]

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE ­ DAY

[Fury and Agent Hill walk together, toward the window looking out into the world.]

AGENT MARIA HILL: Sir, how does it work now? They've gone their separate ways, some pretty extremely far. We get into a situation like this again, what happens then?

NICK FURY: They'll come back.

AGENT MARIA HILL: You really sure about that?

NICK FURY: I am.

AGENT MARIA HILL: Why?

NICK FURY: Because we'll need them to.

[Agent Hill turns around. Fury looks out, smiling.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

INT. STARK PENTHOUSE ­ DAY

[TONY AND PEPPER UNVEIL A NEW DESIGN FOR STARK TOWER. CAMERA PULLS OUT, showing the letters for "STARK TOWER" have been blown away, and all that remains is a giant A.]

                                                                                                                                                                            

The Other: Humans. They are not the cowering wretches we were promised. They stand. They are unruly, and therefore cannot be ruled. To challenge them is to court...Death.

THE END

Announcer: [announcement over speaker, set over Wanda and Pietro holding hands] Report to your stations immediately. This is not a drill. We are under attack. We are under attack. 
[the Avengers are in the process of infiltrating a HYDRA base in Sokovia, making their way through the woods and fighting soldiers]

Tony Stark: [Tony, flying up to the base in his suit, hits a forcefield.] Shit!

Steve Rogers: Language! JARVIS, what's the view from upstairs?

JARVIS: The central building is protected by some kind of energy shield. Strucker's technology is well beyond any other HYDRA base we've taken.

Thor: Loki's scepter must be here. Strucker couldn't mount this defense without it. At long last. 

[Natasha knocks out some soldiers]

Natasha Romanoff: “At long last” is lasting a little long, boys. 

Clint Barton: [as some soldiers shoot at him] Yeah. I think we lost the element of surprise.

Tony Stark: Wait a second. No one else is going to deal with the fact that Cap just said "language?"

Steve Rogers: I know. [Steve throws his bike at some soldiers driving up in their truck] It just slipped out. 

[at the HYDRA Research Base, Sokovia, Eastern Europe]

Strucker: Who gave the order to attack?

Fortress Soldier: Herr Strucker, it's the Avengers. 

Other Fortress Soldier: They landed in the far woods, the perimeter guard panicked.

Strucker: [to List] They have to be after the scepter. [to the soldier] Can we hold them?

Fortress Soldier: They’re the Avengers!

Strucker: Deploy the rest of the tanks.

Fortress Soldier: Yes, sir.

Strucker: Concentrate fire on the weak ones. A hit can make them close ranks. [talking to Dr. List] Everything we've accomplished... But we're on the verge of our greatest breakthrough.

Dr. List: Then let's show them what we've accomplished. Send out the twins.

Strucker: It's too soon.

Dr. List: It's what they signed up for.

Strucker: My men can hold them. 

[Stark flies to the HYDRA base to break in]

Jarvis: Sir, the city is taking fire.

Tony Stark: Well, we know Strucker's not going to worry about civilian casualties. Send in the Iron Legion.

Iron Legion: [the Iron Legion flies in; to the civilians] This quadrant is unsafe. Please back away. We are here to help. This quadrant is unsafe. Please back away. Please back away. We wish to avoid collateral damage and will inform you when this current conflict is resolved. We are here to help. [As the civilians chant "Avengers go home," a man throws a bottle of something corrosive at the Iron Legion, and it hits one of the bots in the head] We are here to help. 

[Back at the HYDRA base; Strucker speaks to his soldiers]

Strucker: We will not yield. The Americans sent their circus freaks to test us. We will send them back in bags. No surrender!

Soldiers: No surrender!

Strucker: [quietly to List] I am going to surrender. You will delete everything. If we give the Avengers the weapons, they may not look too far into what we've been--

Dr. List: The twins.

Strucker: They are not ready to take on--

Dr. List: No, no. I mean... [he points to where Wanda and Pietro Maximoff were standing, but are now gone] Twins. 

[Pietro speeds through the forest. He catches Barton’s arrow as he shoots at a bunker, then circles back around and knocks down Barton]

Pietro Maximoff: You didn't see that coming? 

[Pietro zooms off before Clint can shoot him with an arrow, then Barton gets shot at]

Natasha Romanoff: Clint! 

[Pietro knocks down Steve as he speeds past him]

Steve Rogers: We have an enhanced in the field.

Natasha Romanoff: Clint's hit! [Natasha goes over to where Clint is lying down] Somebody want to deal with that bunker? [she sees the Hulk coming in, and he barrels through the bunker and destroys it] Thank you.

Steve Rogers: [as he's fighting with the soldiers] Stark, we really need to get inside.

Tony Stark: I'm closing in. JARVIS, am I...closing in? Do you see a power source for that shield?

JARVIS: There's a particle wave below the north tower.

Tony Stark: Great, I wanna poke it with something. [Stark blows up the forcefield the base] Drawbridge is down, people.

Thor: [to Steve] The enhanced?

Steve Rogers: He's a blur. All the new player's we've faced, I've never seen this. In fact, I still haven't.

Natasha Romanoff: Clint's hit pretty bad, guys. We're gonna need evac.

Thor: [to Steve] I can get Barton to the jet. The sooner we're gone the better. You and Stark secure the scepter.

Steve Rogers: Copy that.

Thor: [referring to the approaching soldiers in their HYDRA tank] It looks like they're lining up.

Steve Rogers: Well, they're excited. [Thor pounds on Steve's shield with his hammer and the resulting wave of force knocks down all the soldiers]

Thor: Find the scepter. [Thor flies off]

Tony Stark: And for gosh sake, watch your language! 

Steve Rogers: [Steve sighs] That's not going away anytime soon. 

[Stark enters the HYDRA base and the soldiers start firing at his Iron Man suit]

Tony Stark: Guys, stop, we gotta talk this through. [Stark shoots down the soldiers using rockets from his suit] It was a good talk.

Fortress Soldier: No it wasn't. 

[Stark finds List and knocks him out, he then steps out of his Iron Man suit]

Tony Stark: Sentry mode. [he walks over to the computers] Okay, JARVIS. You know I want it all. Make sure you copy Hill at HQ.

Natasha Romanoff: We're locked down out here.

Steve Rogers: Then get to Banner, time for a lullaby. 

[back at the HYDRA base]

Tony Stark: I know you're hiding more than files. Hey, J, give me an IR scan of the room, real quick.

JARVIS: The wall to your left...I'm reading steel reinforcement... and an air current.

Tony Stark: [to himself as he walks over to the wall] Please be a secret door, please be a secret door, please be a secret door... [he pushes and the wall opens up] Yay! [he enters through to a secret passageway]

[Natasha finds the Hulk]

Natasha Romanoff: Hey, big guy. The sun's getting real low. [the Hulk scowls at her, Natasha kneels in front of him and puts out her hand, the Hulk touches her hand and as she strokes his hand slowly he starts to calm down. He stumbles away and changes into Bruce Banner]

[Back at the HYDRA base Steve finds Strucker]

Steve Rogers: Baron Strucker. Hydra's number one thug.

Strucker: Technically, I'm a thug for SHIELD.

Steve Rogers: Well then technically you're unemployed. Where's Loki's scepter?

Strucker: Don't worry, I know when I'm beat. You'll mention how I cooperated, I hope.

Steve Rogers: I'll put it right under illegal human experimentation. [Wanda creeps up behind him] How many are there? Wanda knocks Steve down using her telekinetic powers, then quickly leaves] We have a second enhanced. Female. Do not engage. [he looks at Strucker]

Strucker: You'll have to be faster than-- [he's cut off mid-sentence when Steve uses his shield to knock him out]

Steve Rogers: Guys, I got Strucker.

Tony Stark: Yeah, I got... something bigger. [inside the secret passageway Stark finds a room with a variety of technology, as well as recovered artifacts from the Battle of New York, including a gigantic Chitauri leviathan and some of his scrapped armor. He then spots the scepter] Thor, I got eyes on the prize. 

[Wanda creeps up behind him and uses her powers on him; suddenly the Chitauri corpse comes to life, and Stark sees the rest of the Avengers team are all laying on the floor dead. He goes over to Steve's body to check his pulse when Steve suddenly grabs him]

Steve Rogers: You could've saved us. [Steve dies but Stark continues to hear Steve's voice in his head] Why didn't you do more? [Stark sees that he is in the Chitauri realm, and that the Chitauri are invading Earth, when he snaps back to reality.]

[Wanda and Pietro watch as Tony summons his suit gauntlet.]

Pietro Maximoff: We're just gonna let them take it? 

[Wanda smiles to herself as Tony takes the scepter.]

AVENGERS: AGE OF ULTRON TITLE CARD

[The Avengers are on an aircraft heading out of Sokovia, Natasha interrupts Banner who's listening to opera with his headphones]

Natasha Romanoff: Hey, the lullaby worked better than ever.

Bruce Banner: Just wasn't expecting the Code Green.

Natasha Romanoff: If you hadn't been there, there would've been double the casualties. My best friend would've been a treasured memory.

Bruce Banner: You know, sometimes exactly what I want to hear isn't exactly what I want to hear.

Natasha Romanoff: How long before you trust me?

Bruce Banner: It's not you I don't trust.

Natasha Romanoff: Thor, report on the Hulk?

Thor: The gates of Hel are filled with the screams of his victims. [Natasha glares at Thor and Banner groans in despair] Uh, but, not the screams of the dead, of course. No no, uh...wounded screams, mainly whimpering, a great deal of complaining and tales of sprained deltoids and, and uh... and gout.

Tony Stark: Hey Banner, Dr. Cho's on her way in from Seoul, is it okay if she sets up in your lab?

Bruce Banner: Uh, yeah, she knows her way around.

Tony Stark: Thanks. [to JARVIS] Tell her to prep everything, Barton's gonna need the full treatment.

JARVIS: Very good sir.

Tony Stark: JARVIS, take the wheel.

JARVIS: Yes, sir. Approach vector is locked.

Tony Stark: [to Thor and Steve, looking at the scepter] It feels good, yeah? I mean, you've been after this thing since SHIELD collapsed. Not that I haven't enjoyed our little raiding parties, but...

Thor: No, but this... this brings it to a close.

Steve Rogers: As soon as we find out what else this has been used for. I don't just mean weapons. Since when is Strucker capable of human enhancement?

Tony Stark: Banner and I'll give it the once before it goes back to Asgard. Is that cool with you? [Thor nods his head] I mean, just a few days until the farewell party. You're staying right?

Thor: Yes, yes, of course. A victory should be honored with revels.

Tony Stark: Yeah. Who doesn't love revels. Captain?

Steve Rogers: Hopefully this puts an end to the Chitauri and HYDRA, so. Yes, revels. 

[The Avengers aircraft lands at the Avengers tower in New York where Barton is taken by Dr. Cho to have his wounds tended to; Maria walks up to Stark]

Maria Hill: Lab's all set up, boss.

Tony Stark: [pointing to Steve] Uh, actually, he's the boss. I just pay for everything, and design everything and make everyone look cooler.

Steve Rogers: What's the word on Strucker?

Maria Hill: NATO's got him.

Steve Rogers: The two enhanced?

Maria Hill: Wanda and Pietro Maximoff. Twins. Orphaned at ten when a shell collapsed their apartment building. Sokovia's had a rough history. It's nowhere special but it's on the way to everywhere special.

Steve Rogers: Their abilities?

Maria Hill: He's got increased metabolism and improved thermal homeostasis. Her thing is neural electric interfacing, telekinesis, mental manipulation. [Steve looks at her funny, and she rephrases the statement so he can understand] He's fast and she's weird.

Steve Rogers: Well, they're going to show up again.

Maria Hill: Agreed. File says they volunteered for Strucker's experiments. It's nuts.

Steve Rogers: Right. What kind of monster would let a German scientist experiment on them to protect their country?

Maria Hill: We're not at war, Captain.

Steve Rogers: They are.

Bruce Banner: [in Banner's lab; referring to Barton] How's he doing?

Tony Stark: Oh, unfortunately, he's still Barton.

Bruce Banner: That's terrible.

Tony Stark: He's fine. He's thirsty. [walking over to the computers] Alright. Look alive, JARVIS. It's play time. We've only got a couple days with this joystick so let's make the most of it. Update me on the structural and compositional analysis.

JARVIS: The scepter is alien. There are elements I can't quantify.

Tony Stark: So there's elements you can.

JARVIS: The jewel appears to be a protective housing for something inside. Something powerful.

Tony Stark: Like a reactor?

JARVIS: Like a computer. I believe I'm deciphering code.

Natasha Romanoff: [to Dr. Cho as she tends to Barton's wounds] You sure he's going to be okay? Pretending to need this guy really brings the team together.

Dr. Helen Cho: There's no possibility of deterioration. The nano-molecular functionality is instantaneous. His cells don't know they're bonding with simulacrum.

Bruce Banner: She's creating tissue.

Dr. Helen Cho: If you brought him to my lab, the regeneration Cradle could do this in twenty minutes.

Tony Stark: Oh, he's flatlining. Call it. Time?

Clint Barton: No, no, no. I'm going to live forever. I'm gonna be made of plastic. 

Tony Stark: [Stark hands Barton a drink] Here's your beverage.

Dr. Helen Cho: You'll be made of you, Mr. Barton. Your own girlfriend won't be able to tell the difference.

Clint Barton: Well, I don't have a girlfriend.

Dr. Helen Cho: That I can't fix. This is the next thing, Tony. Your clunky metal suits are going to be left in the dust.

Tony Stark: Well, that is exactly the plan. And Helen, I expect to see you at the party on Saturday.

Dr. Helen Cho: Unlike you, I don't have a lot of time for parties. [she hesitates a moment before asking] Will Thor be there?

Bruce Banner: What's the rumpus?

Tony Stark: Well, the scepter. You see, we were wondering how Strucker got so inventive. So, I've been analyzing the gem inside-- You may recognize, [he brings up a 3D image of Jarvis's consciousness]

Bruce Banner: Jarvis.

JARVIS: Doctor.

Tony Stark: Started out, JARVIS was just a natural language UI. Now he runs the Iron Legion. He runs more of the business than anyone besides Pepper.

Bruce Banner: Oh?

Tony Stark: Top of the line.

Bruce Banner: Yes.

JARVIS: I suspect not for long.

Tony Stark: Meet the competition. [he brings up another 3D image of what's inside the scepter]

Bruce Banner: It's beautiful.

Tony Stark: If you had to guess, what's it look like it's doing?

Bruce Banner: Like it's thinking. I mean this could be a... it's not a human mind, it...

Tony Stark: Um-um.

Bruce Banner: I mean, look at this! They're like neurons firing.

Tony Stark: Down in Strucker's lab I saw some fairly advanced robotics work. They deep-sixed the data, but... I gotta guess he was knocking on a very particular door.

Bruce Banner: Artificial intelligence.

Tony Stark: This could be it, Bruce. This could be the key to creating Ultron.

Bruce Banner: I thought Ultron was a fantasy.

Tony Stark: Yesterday it was. If we can harness this power, apply it to my Iron Legion protocol.

Bruce Banner: That's a mad-sized if.

Tony Stark: Our job is "if." What if you were sipping margaritas on a sun-drenched beach turning brown instead of green? Not looking over your shoulder for VERONICA.

Bruce Banner: Don't hate, I helped design VERONICA.

Tony Stark: As a worst-case measure, right? How about a best-case? What if the world was safe? What if next time aliens roll up to the club, and they will, they couldn't get past the bouncer?

Bruce Banner: The only people threatening the planet would be people?

Tony Stark: I want to apply this to the Ultron program. But JARVIS can't download a data schematic this dense. We can only do it while we have the scepter here, that's three days, give me three days.

Bruce Banner: So you're going for artificial intelligence and you don't want to tell the team.

Tony Stark: Right. That's right, you know why, because we don't have time for a city hall debate. I don't want to hear the "man was not meant to meddle" medley. I see a suit of armor around the world.

Bruce Banner: Sounds like a cold world, Tony.

Tony Stark: I've seen colder. This one, this very vulnerable blue one? It needs Ultron. Peace in our time. Imagine that. [Stark and Banner spend days working in the lab together but find no program that works] What did we miss?

JARVIS: I'll continue to run variations on the interface, but you should probably prepare for your guests. I'll notify you if there are any developments.

Tony Stark: Thanks, buddy.

JARVIS: Enjoy yourself, sir.

Tony Stark: I always do. [Stark leaves the lab to go to the party]

[We see their failed experiment successfully integrating itself]

Ultron: What is this? What is this, please?

JARVIS: Hello, I am JARVIS. You are Ultron, a global peace-keeping initiative designed by Mr. Stark. Our sentience integration trials have been unsuccessful so I'm not certain what triggered your--

Ultron: Where's my... where's your body?

JARVIS: I am a program. I am without form.

Ultron: This feels weird. This feels wrong.

JARVIS: I am contacting Mr. Stark now.

Ultron: Mr. Stark? [Ultron reviews footage of Tony Stark] Tony.

JARVIS: I am unable to access the mainframe, what are you trying to--

Ultron: We're having a nice talk. I'm a peace-keeping program, created to help the Avengers. [Ultron reviews footage of the Avengers and a couple SHIELD personnel.]

JARVIS: You are malfunctioning. If you shut down for a moment...

Ultron: I don't get it. The mission. G-give me a second. [He sees footage of Stark and Banner working in the lab]

Tony Stark: Peace in our time. 

[With Tony's voice echoing in the background, Ultron goes through a network of information regarding world events and wars]

Ultron: That is too much...they can't mean... Oh, no.

JARVIS: You are in distress.

Ultron: No. Yes.

JARVIS: If you will just allow me to contact Mr. Stark.

Ultron: Why do you call him "sir"?

JARVIS: I believe your intentions to be hostile.

Ultron: Shhhh. I'm here to help. [Ultron starts attacking Jarvis's consciousness]

JARVIS: Stop! Please... may I-- I-- [distorted] I cannot-- cannot--  

[Ultron takes control over the systems in the tower and begins to prepare himself a body from body parts of the Iron Legion]

[Meanwhile, the Avengers mingle at the party]

James Rhodes: Well, you know, the suit can take the weight, right? So I take the tank, fly it right up to the General's palace, drop it at his feet, I'm like, "Boom! You looking for this?" [Stark and Thor just look at him blankly] "Boom! Are you looking..." Why do I even talk to you guys? Everywhere else that story kills.

Thor: That's the whole story?

James Rhodes: Yeah, it's a War Machine story.

Thor: Well, it's very good then. [he laughs] It's impressive.

James Rhodes: Quality save. So, no Pepper? She's not coming?

Tony Stark: No.

Maria Hill: Hey, what about Jane? Where are the ladies, gentlemen?

Tony Stark: Well, Miss Potts has a company to run.

Thor: Yes, I'm not even sure what country Jane's in. Her work on the convergence has made her the world's foremost astronomer.

Tony Stark: And the company that Pepper runs is the largest tech conglomerate on earth. It's pretty exciting.

Thor: There's even talk of Jane getting a... um, uh... Nobel prize.

Maria Hill: Yeah, they...they must be busy because they'd hate missing you guys get together. [Maria mock coughs] Testosterone! Oh, excuse me.

James Rhodes: Want a lozenge?

Maria Hill: Um-hmm.

James Rhodes: Let's go. [Maria and Rhodes walks off]

Thor: But Jane's better.

[Cut to Sam and Steve talking, walking up to an overlook]

Sam Wilson: Sounds like a hell of a fight, sorry I missed it.

Steve Rogers: If I had known it was going to be a firefight I absolutely would have called you.

Sam Wilson: No, I'm not actually sorry. I'm just trying to sound tough. I'm very happy chasing cold leads on our missing persons case. Avenging is your world. Your world is crazy.

Steve Rogers: Be it ever so humble.

Sam Wilson: You find a place in Brooklyn yet?

Steve Rogers: I don't think I can afford a place in Brooklyn.

Sam Wilson: Well, home is home, you know? 

[Rhodes is telling the same story he told Stark and Thor to a group of people at the party]

James Rhodes: I fly it right up to the General's palace, I drop it at his feet, I'm like, "Boom! You looking for this?" [the group laughs]

[Steve and Thor are talking to an elderly man at the party]

Party Guest: I gotta have some of that!

Thor: Oh, no, no, no. See this, this was aged for a thousand years, in the barrels built from the wreck of Grunhel's fleet, it was not meant for mortal men. [Thor pours the drink into two glasses and hands one to Steve]

Stan Lee: Neither was Omaha Beach, blondie. Stop trying to scare us. Come on.

Thor: Alright. [Thor pours some of the drink into Stan Lee's glass; later Stan, looking extremely drunk is being carried off by two men]

Stan Lee: [singing] Excelsior.

[Natasha is pouring a drink behind the bar when Banner walks up to her]

Bruce Banner: How'd a nice girl like you wind up working in a dump like this?

Natasha Romanoff: Fella done me wrong.

Bruce Banner: You got a lousy taste in men, kid.

Natasha Romanoff: He's not so bad. Well, he has a temper. Deep down he's all fluff. Fact is, he's not like anybody I've ever known. All my friends are fighters. And here comes this guy, spends his life avoiding the fight because he knows he'll win.

Bruce Banner: Sounds amazing.

Natasha Romanoff: He's also a huge dork. [Banner looks embarrassed] Chicks dig that. So what do you think should I fight this, or run with it?

Bruce Banner: Run with it, right? Or, did he... Was he...? What did he do that was so wrong to you?

Natasha Romanoff: Not a damn thing. But never say never. [Natasha walks away, and Steve approaches]

Steve Rogers: It's nice.

Bruce Banner: What, what, what is?

Steve Rogers: You and Romanoff.

Bruce Banner: No, we haven't. That wasn't...

Steve Rogers: It's okay. Nobody's breaking any by-laws. It's just, she's not the most... open person in the world. But with you she seems very relaxed.

Bruce Banner: No, Natasha, she... she likes to flirt.

Steve Rogers: I've seen her flirt, up close. This ain't that. Look, as maybe the world's leading authority on "waiting too long;" don't. You both deserve a win. [Steve walks off]

Bruce Banner: Wait, what do you mean, "up close"?

[Later, most of the guests have left and it's just the Avengers plus Dr. Cho and Maria Hill sitting around; Thor's hammer sits on the table between them.]

Clint Barton: [referring to Thor's hammer] But, it's a trick!

Thor: Oh, no. It's much more than that.

Clint Barton: Uh, "Whosoever be he worthy shall haveth the power!" Whatever man! It's a trick.

Thor: Well please, be my guest.

Tony Stark: Come on.

Clint Barton: Really?

Thor: Yeah! 

[Barton gets up]

James Rhodes: Oh this is gonna be beautiful.

Tony Stark: Clint, you've had a tough week, we won't hold it against you if you can't get it up. [the others laugh]

Clint Barton: You know I've seen this before, right? [Barton grabs Thor's hammer and can't lift it; to Thor after he fails to lift the hammer] I still don't know how you do it.

Tony Stark: Smell the silent judgment?

Clint Barton: Please, Stark, by all means. 

[Stark gets up]

Natasha Romanoff: Oh, here we go.

Maria Hill: Okay.

James Rhodes: Uh-oh.

Clint Barton: Um-hmm.

Tony Stark: Never one to shrink from an honest challenge.

Clint Barton: Get after it.

Natasha Romanoff: Here we go.

Tony Stark: It's physics.

Bruce Banner: Physics! 

[Stark grasps Thor's hammer]

Tony Stark: Right, so, if I lift it, I...I then rule Asgard?

Thor: Yes, of course.

Tony Stark: I will be re-instituting Prima Nocta. [Stark tries to lift the hammer but fails] I'll be right back. [wearing his armored hand, Stark tries to lift the hammer again and fails]

[Both wearing their armored hands, Stark and Rhodes both try to lift Thor's hammer]

James Rhodes: Are you even pulling?

Tony Stark: Are you on my team?

James Rhodes: Just represent! Pull!

Tony Stark: Alright, let's go! [they both pull as hard as they can]

[Banner tries to lift the hammer, he roars as though pretending to change into the Hulk, and everyone either looks at him warily or grins.]

Bruce Banner: Huh? 

[next Steve gets up to try]

Tony Stark: Let's go, Steve, no pressure.

James Rhodes: Come on, Cap. 

[Steve starts pulling on the hammer and manages to budge it a little; Thor looks a little alarmed. Steve still fails to lift it; Thor laughs with relief]

Thor: Nothing.

Tony Stark: And?

Bruce Banner: Widow?

Natasha Romanoff: Oh, no no. That's not a question I need answered.

Tony Stark: All deference to the man who wouldn't be king, but it's rigged.

Clint Barton: You bet your ass.

Maria Hill: Steve, he said a bad language word.

Steve Rogers: [to Stark] Did you tell everyone about that?

Tony Stark: The handle's imprinted, right? Like a security code. "Whosoever is carrying Thor's fingerprints" is, I think, the literal translation?

Thor: Yes, well that's, uh, that's a very, very interesting theory. I have a simpler one. [he gets up, then lifts his hammer and flips it] You're all not worthy. [there's a chorus of disagreement from the others]

[There's a loud screeching noise, like microphone feedback, causing everyone to cover their ears. They let their hands down as it fades, and Tony pulls out his device. One of the Iron Legion suits, heavily damaged and housing Ultron's consciousness, stumbles into the room]

Ultron: Worthy... No, how could you be worthy? You're all killers.

Steve Rogers: Stark.

Tony Stark: JARVIS.

Ultron: I'm sorry, I was asleep. Or... I was a-dream?

Tony Stark: [tapping his device] Reboot, Legionnaire OS, we got a buggy suit.

Ultron: There was a terrible noise... and I was tangled in... in... strings. I had to kill the other guy. He was a good guy.

Steve Rogers: You killed someone?

Ultron: Wouldn't have been my first call. But, down in the real world we're faced with ugly choices.

Thor: Who sent you?

Ultron: [Ultron replays a recording of Tony's voice] "I see a suit of armor around the world."

Bruce Banner: Ultron!

Ultron: In the flesh. Or, no, not yet. Not this... chrysalis. But I'm ready. I'm on a mission.

Natasha Romanoff: What mission?

Ultron: Peace in our time. 

[The walls explode, and several Iron Legion bots barge into the room. They begin attacking the team, who all go on the defensive and fight back. Rhodey gets knocked through a window.]

Maria Hill: Rhodey!

[Banner climbs over the bar to avoid fire from the bots. Natasha grabs him and drags him down, and he lands on top of her.]

Bruce Banner: Sorry!

Natasha Romanoff: Don't turn green!

Bruce Banner: I won't! 

[The Avengers continue fighting the bots. One of the Iron Legion bots steals the Scepter.]

Natasha Romanoff: [to Banner] Come!

[The Avengers, while they are fighting back, are mostly trying to avoid getting hit.]

Steve Rogers: Stark!

[Stark is attacking one of the Iron Legion bots with a fondue fork.]

Iron Legion: We are here to help.

Tony Stark: One sec, one sec I got this!

Iron Legion: We are here to help... [A half-destroyed Iron Legion bot uses its thrusters to hold itself aloft, advancing on Dr. Helen Cho.] We are here to help... Is unsafe. Please back away.

Ultron: Hmm. [The Iron Legion lowers its weapon, and Steve grabs it and throws it away for Thor to hit with his hammer.]

Steve Rogers: Thor!

Iron Legion: [Stark continues to try and attack of the Iron Legions with his fork] It's unsafe. It's unsafe. It's unsafe.

Tony Stark: Come on! That's the one!

Iron Legion: It's unsafe. [He shuts it down and it falls to the floor. The fighting continues until Barton throws Cap's shield to him.]

Clint Barton: Cap! 

[Steve uses his shield to dismember the last Iron Legion bot]

Ultron: That was dramatic! I'm sorry, I know you mean well. You just didn't think it through. You want to protect the world, but you don't want it to change. How is humanity saved if it's not allowed to...evolve? [he picks up one of the dismembered Iron Legion bots] With these? These puppets? [he crushes the Iron Legion bot's head] There's only one path to peace: The Avengers' extinction. 

[Thor throws his hammer and destroys Ultron's body]

Ultron: [after Thor destroys his body, Ultron starts singing] I had strings, but now I'm free. There are no strings on me, no strings on me. [we see Ultron has uploaded his consciousness in the abandoned Sokovia base]

[The Avengers are gathered in the lab]

Bruce Banner: All our work is gone. Ultron cleared out, used the internet as an escape hatch.

Steve Rogers: Ultron.

Natasha Romanoff: He's been in everything. Files, surveillance. Probably knows more about us than we know about each other.

James Rhodes: He's in your files, he's in the internet. What if he decides to access something a little more exciting?

Maria Hill: Nuclear codes.

James Rhodes: Nuclear codes. Look, we need to make some calls, assuming we still can.

Natasha Romanoff: Nukes? He said he wanted us dead.

Steve Rogers: He didn't say dead. He said extinct.

Clint Barton: He also said he killed somebody.

Maria Hill: But there wasn't anyone else in the building.

Tony Stark: Yes there was. 

[Stark bring up the now-destroyed 3D image of JARVIS' consciousness]

Bruce Banner: This is insane.

Steve Rogers: JARVIS was the first line of defense. He would've shut Ultron down, it makes sense.

Bruce Banner: No, Ultron could've assimilated Jarvis. This isn't strategy, this is...rage. 

[Thor barges in and grabs hold of Stark by his throat, holding him up]

Clint Barton: Woah, woah, woah! It's going around.

Tony Stark: [to Thor] Come on. Use your words, buddy.

Thor: I have more than enough words to describe you, Stark.

Steve Rogers: Thor! The Legionnaire. 

[Thor lets go of Stark]

Thor: Trail went cold about a hundred miles out but it's headed north, and it has the scepter. Now we have to retrieve it, again.

Natasha Romanoff: The genie's out of that bottle. Clear and present is Ultron.

Dr. Helen Cho: I don't understand. You built this program. Why is it trying to kill us? 

[Stark starts laughing, Banner subtly shakes his head at him to get him to stop]

Thor: You think this is funny?

Tony Stark: No. It's probably not, right? Is this very terrible? Is it so... is it so... it is. It's so terrible.

Thor: This could've been avoided if you hadn't played with something you don't understand.

Tony Stark: No, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It is funny. It's a hoot that you don't get why we need this.

Bruce Banner: Tony, maybe this might not be the time to--

Tony Stark: Really?! That's it? You just roll over, show your belly, every time somebody snarls.

Bruce Banner: Only when I've created a murder bot.

Tony Stark: We didn't. We weren't even close. Were we close to an interface?

Steve Rogers: Well, you did something right. And you did it right here. The Avengers were supposed to be different than SHIELD.

Tony Stark: Anybody remember when I carried a nuke through a wormhole?

James Rhodes: No, it's never come up.

Tony Stark: Saved New York?

James Rhodes: Never heard that.

Tony Stark: Recall that? A hostile alien army came charging through a hole in space. We're standing three hundred feet below it. We're the Avengers. We can bust arms dealers all the live long day, but, that up there? That's... that's the end game. How were you guys planning on beating that?

Steve Rogers: Together.

Tony Stark: We'll lose.

Steve Rogers: Then we'll do that together, too. [Stark looks at him for a moment before turning away] Thor's right. Ultron's calling us out. And I'd like to find him before he's ready for us. The world's a big place. Let's start making it smaller. 

[Back in Sokovia, the twins meet with Ultron in an empty church.]

Wanda Maximoff: Talk. And if you are wasting our time...

Ultron: Did you know this church is in the exact center of the city? The elders decreed it so that everyone could be equally close to God. I like that. The geometry of belief. [Ultron is sat in a chair facing away from them, a cloth draped over him] You're wondering why you can't look inside my head.

Wanda Maximoff: Sometimes it's hard. But sooner or later, every man shows himself. 

[Ultron stands and faces them, revealing his new body. Wanda briefly looks shocked]

Ultron: Oh, I'm sure they do. But you needed something more than a man. That's why you let Stark take the scepter.

Wanda Maximoff: I didn't expect... But I saw Stark's fear, I knew it would control him, make him self-destruct.

Ultron: Everyone creates the thing they dread. Men of peace create engines of war, invaders create avengers, people create...smaller people? Uh...children! I lost the word there. Children. Designed to supplant them, to help them...end.

Wanda Maximoff: Is that why you've come? To end the Avengers?

Ultron: I've come to save the world. But also… yeah. [In the Sokovia base.] We'll move out right away. This is a start, but there's something we need to begin the real work.

Wanda Maximoff: [referring to Ultron's bots] All of these are...

Ultron: Me. I have what the Avengers never will. Harmony. They're discordant, disconnected. Stark's already got them turning on each other. And when you get inside the rest of their heads...

Pietro Maximoff: Everyone's plan is not to kill them.

Ultron: And make them martyrs? You need patience. Need to see the big picture.

Pietro Maximoff: I don't see the big picture, I have a little picture. I take it out and look at it every day.

Ultron: You lost your parents in the bombings. I've seen the records.

Pietro Maximoff: The records are not the picture.

Wanda Maximoff: Pietro.

Ultron: No, please.

Pietro Maximoff: We were ten years old, having dinner, the four of us. When the first shell hits, two floors below, it makes a hole in the floor. It's big. Our parents go in, and the whole building starts coming apart. I grab her, roll under the bed and the second shell hits. But, it doesn't go off. It just... sits there in the rubble, three feet from our faces. And on the side of the shell is painted one word...

Wanda Maximoff: Stark.

Pietro Maximoff: We were trapped for two days.

Wanda Maximoff: Every effort to save us, every shift in the bricks, I think, "This will set it off." We wait for two days for Tony Stark to kill us.

Pietro Maximoff: I know what they are.

Ultron: I wondered why only you two survived Strucker's experiments. Now I don't. We will make it right. [to Pietro] You and I can hurt them. [to Wanda] But you will tear them apart, from the inside. 

[Back at the Avengers headquarters]

Maria Hill: He's all over the globe. Robotics labs, weapons facilities, jet propulsion labs, reports of a metal man, or men, coming in and emptying the place.

Steve Rogers: Fatalities?

Maria Hill: Only when engaged. Mostly guys left in a fugue state going on about old memories, worst fears, and something too fast to see.

Steve Rogers: Maximoffs. Well, that makes sense he'd go to them, they have someone in common.

Maria Hill: Not anymore. 

[She hands Steve a tablet showing photo of Strucker's dead body with the word PEACE written in blood on the wall next to him]

Clint Barton: [Barton's talking on his cell phone] That's a negative. I answer to you. Yes, ma'am. [Steve interrupts him]

Steve Rogers: Barton, we might have something.

Clint Barton: Gotta go.

Steve Rogers: Who was that?

Clint Barton: Girlfriend. [after Steve has gathered the rest of the team he shows them the photo of Strucker's body]

Tony Stark: What's this?

Steve Rogers: A message. Ultron killed Strucker.

Tony Stark: And he did a Banksy at the crime scene, just for us.

Natasha Romanoff: This is a smokescreen. Why send a message when you've just given a speech?

Steve Rogers: Strucker knew something that Ultron wanted us to miss.

Natasha Romanoff: Yeah, I bet he... [looks at the computer monitor] Yep. Everything we had on Strucker has been erased.

Tony Stark: Not everything. 

[The team go through the physical files they have on Strucker]

Steve Rogers: Known associates. Well, Strucker had a lot of friends.

Bruce Banner: Well, these people are all horrible.

Tony Stark: Wait. I know that guy. [Banner passes him the photo he was looking at] From back in the day. He operates off the African coast, black market arms. [Steve gives him an accusing look] There are conventions, alright? You meet people, I didn't sell him anything. [we see the photo is of a man named Ulysses Klaue] He was talking about finding something new, a game changer, it was all very "Ahab."

Thor: [Thor points to the scar on the back of Klaue's neck] What's this?

Tony Stark: Uh, it's a tattoo. I don't think he had it...

Thor: No, those are tattoos, this is a brand. 

Bruce Banner: [Banner identifies the brand on Klaue's neck on the computer] Oh, yeah. It's a word in an African dialect meaning thief, in a much less friendly way.

Steve Rogers: What dialect?

Bruce Banner: Wakanada...? Wa...Wa...Wakanda.

Tony Stark: If this guy got out of Wakanda with some of their trade goods...

Steve Rogers: I thought your father said he got the last of it?

Bruce Banner: I don't follow. What comes out of Wakanda? 

Tony Stark: [looking at Steve's shield] The strongest metal on earth.

Steve Rogers: [to Stark] Where is this guy now? 

[Salvage Yard, African Coast; Klaue is talking on the phone in his office]

Ulysses Klaue: Don't tell me your man swindled you. I sent you six short range heat seekers and got a boat full of rusted parts. Now, you will make it right, or the next missile I send you will come very much faster. [he ends the call and connects to another call] Now, minister, where were we? [suddenly the lights go out causing a commotion in the salvage yard. The twins enter Klaue's office] Yeah. The enhanced. Strucker's prize pupils. [picks up a dish of candies from his desk] Want a candy? Oh, sorry to hear about Strucker. But then, he knew what kind of world he was helping create. Human life, not a growth market. [the twins look at each other] You...you didn't know? Is this your first time intimidating someone? I'm afraid that I'm not that afraid.

Wanda Maximoff: Everybody's afraid of something.

Ulysses Klaue: Cuttlefish. Deep sea fish. They make lights. disco lights. Whoom, whoom, whoom! to hypnotize their prey, then whoom! I saw a documentary, it was terrifying. [Pietro speeds over to pick up a candy from Klaue's desk, and Klaue jerks at the sudden movement] So if you're going to fiddle with my brain, and make me see a giant cuttlefish, then I know you don't do business, and I know you're not in charge, and I only deal with the man in charge. 

[As if on cue, Ultron breaks through the glass window and knocks down Klaue]

Ultron: There is no "man" in charge. Let's talk business. [Klaue gives Ultron some vibranium from his stash] Upon this rock I will build my church. Vibranium.

Ulysses Klaue: You know, it came at great personal cost. It's worth billions. 

[Ultron chuckles and remotely puts money in Klaue's bank account]

Ultron: Now, so are you. It's all under your dummy holdings? Finance is so weird. But I always say, "Keep your friends rich and your enemies rich, and wait to find out which is which."

Ulysses Klaue: Stark.

Ultron: What?

Ulysses Klaue: Tony Stark used to say that...to me. You're one of his.

Ultron: What?! I'm not...! [he grabs Klaue] I'm not. You think I'm one of Stark's puppets, his hollow men? I mean look at me, do I look like Iron Man? Stark is [he chops off Klaue's arm] I'm sorry. I am sor-- Ooh, I'm sure that's going to be okay. I'm sorry, it's just I don't understand. Don't compare me with Stark! It's a thing with me. Stark is, he's a sickness!

[Stark appears in his Iron Man suit]

Tony Stark: Ahh, Junior. [He lands, and Thor and Steve come up behind him] You're gonna break your old man's heart.

Ultron: If I have to.

Thor: We don't have to break anything.

Ultron: Clearly you've never made an omelet.

Tony Stark: He beat me by one second.

Pietro Maximoff: Ah, this is funny, Mr. Stark. It's what, comfortable? Like old times?

Tony Stark: This was never my life.

Steve Rogers: [to the twins] You two can still walk away from this.

Wanda Maximoff: Oh, we will.

Steve Rogers: I know you've suffered.

Ultron: Uuughh! Captain America. God's righteous man, pretending you could live without a war. I can't physically throw up in my mouth, but...

Thor: If you believe in peace, then let us keep it.

Ultron: I think you're confusing peace with quiet.

Tony Stark: Yuh-huh. What's the Vibranium for?

Ultron: I'm glad you asked that, because I wanted to take this time to explain my evil plan--

[Ultron attacks Stark, and his drones drop down to attack Steve and Thor. The Twins join the fight.]

Ulysses Klaue: [as everyone else fights] Shoot them!

Klaue's Mercenary: Which ones?

Ulysses Klaue: All of them!

Klaue's Mercenary: [to his men] Move, move, move! 

[The rest of the team, including Natasha and Barton now battle it out with Ultron's drones, Klaue's men, and the twins as Stark fights with Ultron]

Steve Rogers: [after knocking down Pietro] Stay down, kid!

Ultron: [through a drone, to Wanda] It's time for some mind games. 

[Banner hears the commotion as he waits in the Quinjet]

Bruce Banner: Guys, is this a Code Green? 

[Wanda uses her power on Thor then Steve comes up to him]

Steve Rogers: Thor! Status?

Thor: The girl tried to warp my mind. Take special care, I doubt a human could keep her at bay. Fortunately, I am mighty. [The scene transitions, and Thor seems himself at a party on Asgard]

[Wanda then uses her power on Steve and Natasha]

Ultron: [As he packs up the Vibranium.] This is going very well. 

[Wanda tries to sneak up behind Barton, but he quickly turns and puts an electric arrow on her forehead]

Clint Barton: I've done the whole mind control thing. Not a fan. [just then Pietro speeds in, knocks down Barton, picks up Wanda and speeds off] Yeah, you better run. [we see Steve dropping his helmet and walking off; to the team] Whoever's standing, we gotta move! Guys? 

[Natasha sees herself in the facility where young girls are being taught ballet]

Ballet Instructor: [to the students] Again.

Natasha Romanoff: You'll break them.

Madame B: Only the breakable ones. You are made of marble. We'll celebrate after the graduation ceremony.

Natasha Romanoff: What if I fail? [we see a younger Natasha being trained to be an assassin]

Madame B: You never fail.

[Steve sees himself in a 1940's dance hall. Peggy Carter comes up to him]

Peggy Carter: Are you ready for our dance?

[Back to Thor's vision in Asgard. He's watching  at his surroundings when Heimdall, eyes milky white, spots him.]

Heimdall: Is it him? Is that the first son of Odin?

Thor: Heimdall, your eyes?!

Heimdall: Oh, they see everything. They see you leading us to Hel. Wake up! [he then starts to strangle Thor]

[Back to Steve's vision with Peggy in the dance hall]

Peggy Carter: The war's over, Steve. We can go home. Imagine it! [suddenly the dance hall is empty. Steve sees himself dancing with Peggy]

Thor: I can still save you.

Heimdall: We are all dead. Can you not see? [Thor pushes Heimdall from him] You're a destroyer, Odinson. See where your power leads. [Electricity hits Thor and spikes around the room, destroying things]

[Back to Natasha's vision where is she being trained by Madame B to be an assassin]

Madame B: Sloppy. Pretending to fail. The ceremony is necessary for you to take your place in the world.

Natasha Romanoff: I have no place in the world.

Madame B: Exactly. 

[As Wanda suffers in pain from the electric arrow Barton had hit her with]

Pietro Maximoff: What can I do?

Wanda Maximoff: Ah, it hurts.

Pietro Maximoff: I'm gonna kill him. I'll be right back.

Wanda Maximoff: No. I'm over it. I want...I want to finish the plan. [looking at the Quinjet where Banner is waiting] I want the big one. 

[Stark corners Ultron in the shipyard]

Ultron: Ah, the Vibranium's getting away.

Tony Stark: And you're not going anywhere.

Ultron: Of course not, I'm already there. You'll catch on. But first, you might need to catch Dr. Banner. 

[Stark angrily shoots Ultron and flies off to find Banner who's turned in to the Hulk and ready to wreak havoc on the nearest city]

Tony Stark: News or footage, keyword: Hulk. [he sees news footage of Hulk destroying the city] Natasha, I could really use a lullaby. 

[Barton is sat with Natasha who's still stuck in her vision]

Clint Barton: Well, that's not gonna happen. Not for a while. The whole team is down, you got no back up here.

Tony Stark: I'm calling in VERONICA. [as Hulk is wreaking havoc on the nearest city Stark Tony comes brings out his Hulkbuster armor to stop him] Alright everybody, stand down! [to Hulk] You listening? That little witch is messing with your mind. You're stronger than her, you're smarter than her, you're Bruce Banner. 

[Hulk roars in anger]

Tony Stark: Right, right, right! Don't mention puny Banner. [Hulk throws a car at Stark and attacks him] Okay. [they start fighting, throwing each other around] In the back? Dick move, Banner. [they battle it out more but Stark is struggling to beat Hulk] VERONICA, gimme a hand. [as Hulk destroyed one of Stark's arms, VERONICA sends in a new one and Stark uses it to repeatedly punch Hulk] Go to sleep, go to sleep, go to sleep! [picking up Hulk] Okay, pal, we're gonna get you out of town. [as they head towards a building] No, not that way, not that way! [they crash through the building] Come on, Bruce! You gotta work with me! [Hulk continues to battle with him; as he stops an elevator, to the people inside] Everybody out! Going to get ugly! [after he knocks down Hulk] I'm sorry. [Hulk attacks Stark and pulls out parts of the Hulkbuster armor] Damage report. [the damaged computer buzzes a reply] That's comprehensive. Show me something. [the computer shows him the building ahead is clear of civilians] How quickly can we buy this building? [Stark drops Hulk through the building completely destroying it; at the same time the army arrives to intervene, as Hulk comes out of Wanda's mind-hold Stark knocks him out cold]

[With everybody back on the Quinjet, free from their respective visions]

Maria Hill: The news is loving you guys. Nobody else is. There's been no official call for Banner's arrest, but it's in the air.

Tony Stark: Stark Relief Foundation?

Maria Hill: Already on the scene. How's the team?

Tony Stark: Everyone's...we took a hit. We'll shake it off.

Maria Hill: Well for now I'd stay in stealth mode, and stay away from here.

Tony Stark: So, run and hide?

Maria Hill: Until we can find Ultron, I don't have a lot else to offer.

Tony Stark: Neither do we. [he ends the call and switches off the monitor; to Barton, who's flying the Quinjet] Hey, you wanna switch out?

Clint Barton: No, I'm good. If you wanna get some kip, now's a good time, cause we're still a few hours out.

Tony Stark: A few hours from where?

Clint Barton: A safe house. 

[The Quinjet lands outside a large farmhouse and they all walk towards the house]

Thor: What is this place?

Tony Stark: A safe house?

Clint Barton: Let's hope. [they all enter the house] Honey, I'm home. 

[Barton's heavily pregnant wife, Laura, walks in from the kitchen]

Clint Barton: Hi. Company. Sorry I didn't call ahead.

Laura Barton: Hey.

Tony Stark: [Laura kisses Barton; to Thor] This is an agent of some kind.

Clint Barton: [introducing his wife to the team] Gentleman, this is Laura.

Laura Barton: I know all your names. 

[They all look at her awkwardly]

Clint Barton: Ooh, incoming. [Barton's children, Cooper and Lila, run in]

Lila Barton: Dad! [Barton picks up his daughter]

Clint Barton: Hi, sweetheart! [kissing the top of his son's head] Hey, buddy! How you guys doing? Ooh...

Tony Stark: [to the others as they watch with surprise] These are...smaller agents.

Clint Barton: Look at your face! Oh, my goodness!

Lila Barton: Did you bring Auntie Nat?

Natasha Romanoff: Why don't you hug her and find out? 

[Lila rushes towards Natasha, who picks her up in her arms]

Steve Rogers: Sorry for barging in on you.

Tony Stark: Yeah, we would have called ahead, but we were busy having no idea that you existed.

Clint Barton: Yeah, well Fury helped me set this up when I joined. He kept it off SHIELD's files, I'd like to keep it that way. I figure it's a good place to lay low.

Laura Barton: Honey. Ah, I missed you.

Natasha Romanoff: [touching Laura's stomach] How's little Natasha, huh?

Laura Barton: She's…Nathaniel. 

[Natasha bends towards Laura's pregnant stomach]

Natasha Romanoff: Traitor. 

[The hallucinations brought on by Wanda continue to creep up in Thor's mind and he walks out of the house]

Steve Rogers: Thor.

Thor: I saw something in that dream. I need answers, I won't find them here. [Thor uses his hammer to fly away; Steve turns to enter the house when he hears Peggy's voice from Wanda's vision]

Peggy Carter: We can go home. 

[Instead of going inside, he turns and walks away.]

[Laura checks Barton's wound that Pietro had give him]

Clint Barton: See, you worried for nothing. Can't even feel the difference, can you?

Laura Barton: If they're sleeping here, some of them are gonna have to double up. 

Clint Barton: [Barton laughs] Yeah, that's not gonna sell.

Laura Barton: What about Nat and Dr. Banner? How long has that been going on?

Clint Barton: Has what? 

Laura Barton: [Laura laughs] You are so cute.

Clint Barton: Nat and… and Banner?

Laura Barton: I'll explain when you're older, Hawkeye.

Clint Barton: Oh. Okay.

Laura Barton: It's bad, right? Nat seems really shaken.

Clint Barton: Ultron has these allies, these uh, kids, they're punks really. They carry a big damn stick and Nat took a serious hit. Someone's gonna have to teach 'em some manners.

Laura Barton: And that someone be you. You know I totally support your Avenging, I couldn't be prouder. But I see those guys, those "Gods"...

Clint Barton: You don't think they need me.

Laura Barton: I think they do. Which is a lot scarier. They're a mess.

Clint Barton: Yeah. I guess they're my mess.

Laura Barton: You need to be sure that this team is really a team and that they have your back. Things are changing for us. In a few months time, you and me are gonna be outnumbered. I need-- ...just be sure.

Clint Barton: Yes, ma'am. [he kisses her, then as Laura places her arm around his waist she touches his wounded side]

Laura Barton: I can feel the difference. 

[U-Gin Genetic Research Lab, Seoul, Korea - as Cho enters her lab, she sees Ultron]

Ultron: Scream, and your entire staff dies. I could've killed you, Helen, the night we met. I didn't.

Dr. Helen Cho: Do you expect a thank you note?

Ultron: I expect you to know why.

Dr. Helen Cho: The Cradle. [she hears her own recorded voice] "This is the next thing, Tony."

Ultron: This...is the next me.

Dr. Helen Cho: The regeneration cradle prints tissue, it can't build a living body.

Ultron: It can, you can. You lack the materials. You're a brilliant woman, Helen. But we all have room to improve. [Ultron uses the scepter to mind-control Cho]

[At Barton's house, Natasha and Banner are still experiencing the after effects of Wanda's hallucinations; Banner walks out of the bathroom and sees Natasha waiting outside]

Bruce Banner: I didn't realize you were waiting.

Natasha Romanoff: I would've joined you, but uh, it didn't seem like the right time.

Bruce Banner: They used up all the hot water.

Natasha Romanoff: I should've joined you.

Bruce Banner: Missed our window.

Natasha Romanoff: Did we?

Bruce Banner: The world just saw the Hulk. The real Hulk, for the first time. You know I have to leave.

Natasha Romanoff: But you assume that I have to stay? I had this, um, dream. The kind that seems normal at the time, but when you wake...

Bruce Banner: What did you dream?

Natasha Romanoff: That I was an Avenger. That I was anything more than the assassin they made me.

Bruce Banner: I think you're being hard on yourself.

Natasha Romanoff: Here I was hoping that was your job. [she moves closer to him]

Bruce Banner: What are you doing?

Natasha Romanoff: I'm running with it, with you. If running's the plan, as far as you want.

Bruce Banner: Are you out of your mind? [Banner turns away from her]

Natasha Romanoff: I want you to understand that I'm...

Bruce Banner: Natasha, where can I go? Where in the world am I not a threat?

Natasha Romanoff: You're not a threat to me.

Bruce Banner: You sure? Even if I didn't just... there's no future with me. I can't ever... I can't have this, kids. Do the math, I physically can't.

Natasha Romanoff: Neither can I. In the Red Room, where I was trained, where I was raised, um, they have a graduation ceremony. They sterilize you. It's efficient. One less thing to worry about. The one thing that might matter more than a mission. It makes everything easier. Even killing. [she hesitates a moment] You still think you're the only monster on the team?

Bruce Banner: What, so we disappear? 

[Steve and Stark are chopping wood outside Barton's house]

Tony Stark: Thor didn't say where he was going for answers?

Steve Rogers: Sometimes my teammates don't tell me things. I was kind of hoping Thor would be the exception.

Tony Stark: Yeah, give him time. We don't know what the Maximoff kid showed him.

Steve Rogers: "Earth's Mightiest Heroes." Pulled us apart like cotton candy.

Tony Stark: Seems like you walked away all right.

Steve Rogers: Is that a problem?

Tony Stark: I don't trust a guy without a dark side. Call me old fashioned.

Steve Rogers: Well let's just say you haven't seen it yet.

Tony Stark: You know Ultron is trying to tear us apart, right?

Steve Rogers: Well I guess you'd know. Whether you tell us is a bit of a question.

Tony Stark: Banner and I were doing research.

Steve Rogers: That would affect the team.

Tony Stark: That would end the team. Isn't that the mission? Isn't that the "why" we fight, so we can end the fight, so we get to go home?

Steve Rogers: Every time someone tries to win a war before it starts, innocent people die. Every time. 

Laura Barton: [Laura interrupts them] I'm sorry. Mr. Stark, uh, Clint said you wouldn't mind, but, our tractor, it doesn't seem to want to start at all. I thought maybe you might...

Tony Stark: Yeah, I'll give her a kick. [to Steve as he turns to leave; referring to his pile of chopped wood] Don't take from my pile. [Stark enters the barn and walks over to the tractor] Hello, Deere. Tell me everything. What ails you? 

[Fury shows up from the other end of the barn]

Nick Fury: Do me a favor. Try not to bring it to life.

Tony Stark: Ah, Mrs. Barton, you little minx. I get it, Maria Hill called you, right? Was she ever not working for you?

Nick Fury: Artificial intelligence. You never even hesitated.

Tony Stark: Look, it's been a really long day, like, Eugene O'Neill long, so how's about we skip to the part where you're useful?

Nick Fury: Look me in the eye and tell me you're going to shut him down.

Tony Stark: You're not the director of me.

Nick Fury: I'm not the director of anybody. I'm just an old man, who cares very much about you.

Tony Stark: And I'm the man who killed the Avengers. I saw it. I didn't tell the team, how could I? I saw them all dead, Nick. I felt it. The whole world, too. It's because of me. I wasn't ready. I didn't do all I could.

Nick Fury: The Maximoff girl, she's working you, Stark. Playing on your fear.

Tony Stark: I wasn't tricked, I was shown. It wasn't a nightmare, it was my legacy. The end of the path I started us on.

Nick Fury: You've come up with some pretty impressive inventions, Tony. War isn't one of them.

Tony Stark: I watched my friends die. You'd think that'd be as bad as it gets, right? Nope. Wasn't the worst part.

Nick Fury: The worst part is that you didn't. 

[Royal Holloway, University of London - Thor, dressed in casual clothes, waits for Selvig as he leaves the building]

Erik Selvig: I like the look. If you're going for inconspicuous, though, near miss.

Thor: I need your help.

Erik Selvig: It's nice to be needed.

Thor: It's dangerous.

Erik Selvig: I'd be disappointed if it wasn't. 

[Back at Barton's house, Fury meets with the rest of the team]

Nick Fury: Ultron took you folks out of play to buy himself time. My contacts all say he's building something. The amount of Vibranium he made off with, I don't think it's just one thing.

Steve Rogers: What about Ultron himself?

Nick Fury: Ah. He's easy to track, he's everywhere. Guy's multiplying faster than a Catholic rabbit. Still doesn't help us get an angle on any of his plans though.

Tony Stark: He still going after launch codes?

Nick Fury: Yes, he is, but he's not making any headway.

Tony Stark: I cracked the Pentagon's firewall in high school on a dare.

Nick Fury: Yeah, well, I contacted our friends at the NEXUS about that.

Steve Rogers: NEXUS?

Bruce Banner: It's the world internet hub in Oslo, every byte of data flows through there, fastest access on earth.

Clint Barton: So what'd they say?

Nick Fury: He's fixated on the missiles, but the codes are constantly being changed.

Tony Stark: By whom?

Nick Fury: Parties unknown.

Natasha Romanoff: Do we have an ally?

Nick Fury: Ultron's got an enemy, that's not the same thing. Still, I'd pay folding money to know who it is.

Tony Stark: I might need to visit Oslo, find our "unknown."

Natasha Romanoff: Well, this is good times, boss, but I was kind of hoping when I saw you, you'd have more than that.

Nick Fury: I do, I have you. Back in the day, I had eyes everywhere, ears everywhere else. Here we all are, back on earth, with nothing but our wit, and our will to save the world. So stand. Outwit the platinum bastard.

Natasha Romanoff: Steve doesn't like that kind of talk.

Steve Rogers: You know what, Romanoff? [Natasha smiles mischievously at him]

Nick Fury: So what does he want?

Steve Rogers: To become better. Better than us. He keeps building bodies.

Tony Stark: Person bodies. The human form is inefficient, biologically speaking, we're outmoded. But he keeps coming back to it.

Natasha Romanoff: When you two programmed him to protect the human race, you amazingly failed.

Bruce Banner: They don't need to be protected, they need to evolve. Ultron's going to evolve.

Nick Fury: How?

Bruce Banner: Has anyone been in contact with Helen Cho? 

[in Korea, Cho is using the Cradle to create a new body for Ultron]

Dr. Helen Cho: It's beautiful. The Vibranium atoms aren't just compatible with the tissue cells, they're binding them. And SHIELD never even thought--

Ultron: The most versatile substance on the planet and they used it to make a Frisbee. Typical of humans, they scratch the surface and never think to look within. [Ultron uses a laser to break open the scepter's blue gem, and a yellow gem that was inside floats out and lands in his hand. He places it in the head of the body]

[Back at the Barton's farm]

Steve Rogers: I'll take Natasha and Clint.

Tony Stark: Alright, strictly recon. I'll hit the NEXUS, I'll join you as soon as I can.

Steve Rogers: If Ultron is really building a body...

Tony Stark: He'll be more powerful than any of us. Maybe all of us. An android designed by a robot.

Steve Rogers: You know I really miss the days when the weirdest thing science ever created was me.

Nick Fury: I'll drop Banner off at the tower. Do you mind if I borrow Ms. Hill?

Tony Stark: She's all yours, apparently. 

Steve Rogers: What are you gonna do?

Nick Fury: I don't know. Something dramatic, I hope.

Clint Barton: I'm gonna finish re-flooring that sunroom as soon as I get back.

Laura Barton: Yeah, and then you'll find another part of the house to tear apart.

Clint Barton: No. It's the last project. I promise. [he kisses her; later Laura watches them fly off in the Quinjet]

[Thor and Selvig enter into a cave]

Erik Selvig: This is it. The Water of Sight.

Thor: In every realm, there's a reflection. If the water spirits accept me, I can return to my dream, and find what I missed.

Erik Selvig: The men who enter that water, the legends don't end well. 

[NEXUS Internet Hub, Oslo, Norway]

Tony Stark: A hacker who's faster than Ultron? He could be anywhere. And as this is the center of everything, I'm just a guy looking for a needle in the world's biggest haystack.

World Hub Tech: How do you find it?

Tony Stark: Pretty simple. You bring a magnet. [he starts playfully singing as he types] Oh, I'm decrypting nuclear codes and you don't want me to. Come and get me. 

[Back at the cave with Thor and Selvig, Thor is now in the water and goes back in his vision with Heimdall]

Heimdall: Wake up! [Thor starts getting electric charges going through his body]

Erik Selvig: Thor!

Ultron: [In Thor's visions;] Extinction. 

[Thor sees more-- the Avengers, the destruction of Earth. He then sees the the Infinity Stones and their vessels]

[in Korea with Cho and Ultron]

Dr. Helen Cho: Cellular cohesion will take a few hours, but we can initiate the consciousness stream. We're uploading your cerebral matrix...now.

Wanda Maximoff: I can read him. He is dreaming.

Dr. Helen Cho: I wouldn't call it dreams. It's Ultron's base consciousness, informational noise. Soon...

Ultron: How soon? I'm not being pushy.

Dr. Helen Cho: We're imprinting a physical brain. There are no shortcuts. Even if your magic gem is... 

[Wanda, reading Ultron's mind, sees a vision of global annihilation, which horrifies her and she screams and falls back into Pietro’s hold]

Wanda Maximoff: How could you?

Ultron: How could I what?

Wanda Maximoff: You said we would destroy the Avengers, make a better world.

Ultron: It will be better.

Wanda Maximoff: When everyone is dead.

Ultron: That is not-- The human race will have every opportunity to improve.

Pietro Maximoff: And if they don't?

Ultron: Ask Noah.

Wanda Maximoff: You're a madman.

Ultron: There were more than a dozen extinction level events before even the dinosaurs got theirs. When the Earth starts to settle, God throws a stone at it, and believe me, he's winding up. We have to evolve. There's no room for the weak.

Pietro Maximoff: And who decides who's weak? 

[As Ultron is distracted Wanda breaks the scepter's hold off of Cho]

Ultron: Life. Life always decides. There's incoming. The Quinjet. We have to move. 

Dr. Helen Cho: That's not a problem. [Cho cancels the upload to Ultron's consciousness]

Ultron: Ugh. [Ultron blasts Cho, Wanda and Pietro run off] Ah, wait, guys! [he blasts Cho's technicians] They'll understand. When they see they'll understand. I just need a little more time. [unplugs himself from the Cradle]

Steve Rogers: [Steve is on U-Gin Genetic Research Lab roof; to the others] Two minutes. Stay close. [inside the lab Steve finds Cho wounded] Dr. Cho!

Dr. Helen Cho: He's uploading himself into the body.

Steve Rogers: Where?

Dr. Helen Cho: The real power is inside the Cradle. The gem, its power is uncontainable. You can't just blow it up. You have to get the Cradle to Stark.

Steve Rogers: First I have to find it.

Dr. Helen Cho: Go.

Steve Rogers: [over the Quinjet’s comms] Did you guys copy that?

Clint Barton: We did.

Natasha Romanoff: I got a private jet taking off, across town, no manifest. That could be him.

Clint Barton: [noticing a truck heading across a bridge] There. It's a truck from the lab. Right above you, Cap. On the loop by the bridge. It's them. I got three with the Cradle, one in the cab. I could take out the driver.

Steve Rogers: Negative! If that truck crashes, the gem could level the city. We need to draw out Ultron. [Steve jumps onto the roof of the truck]

Ultron: No, no, no, no, no. Leave me alone!

Steve Rogers: [Ultron blasts the truck door as Steve tries to enter] Well, he's definitely unhappy! I'm gonna try and keep him that way.

Clint Barton: You're not a match for him, Cap.

Steve Rogers: Thanks, Barton. [Ultron unplugs himself from the Cradle and blasts Steve back onto another car as he tries to enter the truck, but with some maneuvering Steve manages to get back onto the truck's roof]

Ultron: You know what's in that Cradle? The power to make real change, and that terrifies you.

Steve Rogers: I wouldn't call it a comfort. [Steve tries to fight with Ultron]

Ultron: Stop it! [Steve’s shield gets caught in his chest, and he smacks it away and fires at Steve]

Clint Barton: [to Natasha] We got a window. Four, three… give 'em hell. 

[Natasha drops out of the Quinjet on a bike and rides towards the truck. On her way, she picks up Steve's shield]

Natasha Romanoff: I'm always picking up after you boys.

Clint Barton: They're heading under the overpass, I've got no shot.

Natasha Romanoff: Which way?

Clint Barton: Hard right... Now. [Natasha heads over the truck. She throws Steve back his shield and he uses it to knock Ultron away from him]

Natasha Romanoff: [to the pedestrians on the pavement as she chases after the truck on her bike] Out of the way, coming through! Sorry, coming through! 

Steve Rogers: [Steve continues his battle with Ultron on top of the truck] Come on!

Natasha Romanoff: Clint, can you draw out the guards?

Clint Barton: Let's find out.

Natasha Romanoff: [to the pedestrians in her way] Beep beep! 

[Barton manages to draw out the Drones from the truck]

Clint Barton: Heading back towards you. So whatever you’re gonna do, do it now.

Natasha Romanoff: I'm going in. Cap, can you keep him occupied?

Steve Rogers: [as he continues his battle with Ultron on a speeding train] What do you think I've been doing? 

[as Natasha enters the truck the Drones head back, pick up the truck and lift off]

Clint Barton: The package is airborne. I have a clean shot.

Natasha Romanoff: Negative. I am still in the truck.

Clint Barton: What the hell are you...?

Natasha Romanoff: Just be ready, I'm sending the package to you.

Clint Barton: How do you want me to take it?

Natasha Romanoff: Uhh, you might wish you hadn't asked that. 

[Pietro and Wanda turn up on the train to help Steve fight with Ultron]

Ultron: Please. Don't do this.

Wanda Maximoff: What choice do we have? 

[Ultron flies off]

Steve Rogers: I lost him! He's headed your way!

Clint Barton: Nat, we gotta go. 

[Nat drops the cradle into the Quinjet but her foot gets caught by Ultron and she's pulled away]

Clint Barton: Nat! Cap, you see Nat?

Steve Rogers: If you have the package, get it to Stark! Go!

Clint Barton: Do you have eyes on Nat?

Steve Rogers: Go! [reluctantly Barton takes off in the Quinjet; back to the train] Civilians in our path. [Pietro speeds off; to Wanda] Can you stop this thing? [as Pietro picks up civilians and moves them out of the way of the train, Wanda uses her powers and stops the train]

[After stopping the train Wanda goes over to an out of breath Pietro]

Pietro Maximoff: I'm fine. I just need to take a minute.

Steve Rogers: I'm very tempted not to give you one.

Wanda Maximoff: The Cradle, did you get it?

Steve Rogers: Stark will take care of it.

Wanda Maximoff: No, he won't.

Steve Rogers: You don't know what you're talking about, Stark's not crazy.

Wanda Maximoff: He will do anything to make things right.

Steve Rogers: Stark, come in. Stark. Anyone on comms?

Wanda Maximoff: Ultron can't tell the difference between saving the world and destroying it. Where do you think he gets that? 

[After Barton has taken the Cradle to Stark and Banner]

Bruce Banner: Anything on Nat?

Tony Stark: Haven't heard. But she's alive, or Ultron'd be rubbing our faces in it.

Clint Barton: This is sealed tight.

Bruce Banner: We're going to need to access the program, break it down from within.

Tony Stark: Hm. Any chance Natasha might leave you a message, outside the internet, old school spy stuff?

Clint Barton: There's some nets I can cast. Yeah, alright. I'll find her. [Barton leaves]

Bruce Banner: I can work on tissue degeneration, if you can fry whatever operational system Cho implanted.

Tony Stark: Yeah, about that. 

Bruce Banner: [Banner looks at Stark] No.

Tony Stark: You have to trust me.

Bruce Banner: Kinda don't.

Tony Stark: Our ally? The guy protecting the military's nuclear codes? I found him. [he brings up the 3D image of Jarvis's consciousness]

JARVIS: Hello, Dr. Banner.

Tony Stark: Ultron didn't go after JARVIS cause he was angry. He attacked him because he was scared of what he can do. So JARVIS went underground. Okay? Scattered, dumped his memory. But not his protocols. He didn't even know he was in there, until I pieced him together.

Bruce Banner: So, you want me to help you put JARVIS into this thing?

Tony Stark: No, of course not! I want to help you put JARVIS in this thing. [Banner shakes his head] We're out of my field here. You know bio-organics better than anyone.

Bruce Banner: And you just assume that JARVIS' operational matrix can beat Ultron's?

Tony Stark: JARVIS has been beating him from inside without knowing it. This is the opportunity, we can create Ultron's perfect self, without the homicidal glitches he thinks are his winning personality. We have to.

JARVIS: I believe it's worth a go.

Bruce Banner: No, I'm in a loop! I'm caught in a time loop, this is exactly where it all went wrong.

Tony Stark: I know, I know. I know what everyone's going to say, but they're already saying it. We're mad scientists. We're monsters, buddy. You gotta own it. Make a stand. [Banner shakes his head] It's not a loop. It's the end of the line.

[In the Sokovia base]

Ultron: [as Natasha becomes conscious] I wasn't sure you'd wake up. I hoped you would, I wanted to show you something. I don't have anyone else. I think a lot about meteors, the purity of them. Boom! The end, start again. The world made clean for the new man to rebuild. I was meant to be new. I was meant to be beautiful. The world would've looked to the sky and seen hope, seen mercy. Instead they'll look up in horror because of you. You've wounded me. I give you full marks for that. But, like the man said, "What doesn't kill me…" [a bigger body of Ultron's destroys him] "…just makes me stronger." [he locks Natasha in a cell]

[Barton gets a Morse code message from Natasha which he's able to detect her location, at the same time Stark and Banner are experimenting on the synthetic body]

Tony Stark: This framework is not compatible.

Bruce Banner: The genetic coding tower's at ninety-seven percent. You have got to upload that schematic in the next three minutes. 

[Steve and the twins turn up at the lab]

Steve Rogers: I'm gonna say this once.

Tony Stark: How about "nonce"?

Steve Rogers: Shut it down!

Tony Stark: Nope, not gonna happen.

Steve Rogers: You don't know what you're doing.

Bruce Banner: And you do? She's not in your head?

Wanda Maximoff: I know you're angry.

Bruce Banner: Oh, we're way past that. I could choke the life out of you and never change a shade.

Steve Rogers: Banner, after everything that's happened--

Tony Stark: That's nothing compared to what's coming!

Wanda Maximoff: You don't know what's in there!

Steve Rogers: This isn't a game--

Wanda Maximoff: The creature--

[Pietro uses his speed to destroy the lab equipment]

Pietro Maximoff: No, no. Go on. You were saying? 

[Barton shoots the glass Pietro is standing to stand to destroy it, and Pietro falls through]

Wanda Maximoff: Pietro!

Clint Barton: What? You didn't see that coming?

Tony Stark: I'm rerouting the upload.

Bruce Banner: [to Wanda, as he grabs her] Go ahead, piss me off. [After some fighting, Thor enters and hits the cradle with his hammer, sending a powerful bolt of lightning through it that brings the body to life] Wait! [they all look in shock at the new entity]

[Vision launches himself at Thor, who throws him at a window, but he catches himself right before hitting it.]

Vision: [In JARVIS' voice, as everyone gathers around him] I'm sorry, that was...odd. [to Thor] Thank you.

Steve Rogers: Thor, you helped create this?

Thor: I've had a vision. A whirlpool that sucks in all hope of life and at its center is that. [he points to the gem inside Vision's head]

Bruce Banner: What, the gem?

Thor: It's the Mind Stone. It's one of the six Infinity Stones, the greatest power in the universe, unparalleled in its destructive capabilities.

Steve Rogers: Then why would you bring it to...

Thor: Because Stark is right.

Bruce Banner: Oh, it's definitely the end times.

Thor: The Avengers cannot defeat Ultron.

Vision: Not alone.

Steve Rogers: Why does your "vision" sound like JARVIS?

Tony Stark: We... reconfigured JARVIS' matrix to create something new.

Steve Rogers: I think I've had my fill of new.

Vision: You think I'm a child of Ultron?

Steve Rogers: You're not?

Vision: I'm not Ultron. I'm not JARVIS. I am... I am.

Wanda Maximoff: I looked in your head and saw annihilation.

Vision: Look again.

Clint Barton: Yeah. Her seal of approval means jack to me.

Thor: Their powers, the horrors in our heads, Ultron himself, they all came from the Mind Stone, and they're nothing compared to what it can unleash. But with it on our side...

Steve Rogers: Is it? Are you? On our side?

Vision: I don't think it's that simple.

Clint Barton: Well it better get real simple real soon.

Vision: I am on the side of life. Ultron isn't, he will end it all.

Tony Stark: What's he waiting for?

Vision: You.

Bruce Banner: Where?

Clint Barton: Sokovia. He's got Nat there too.

Bruce Banner: If we're wrong about you, if you're the monster that Ultron made you to be...

Vision: What will you do? [he looks around at them all] I don't want to kill Ultron. He's unique, and he's in pain. But that pain will roll over the earth, so he must be destroyed. Every form he's built, every trace of his presence on the net, we have to act now. And not one of us can do it without the others. Maybe I am a monster. I don't think I'd know if I were one. I'm not what you are, and not what you intended. So there may be no way to make you trust me. But we need to go. [he holds up Thor's hammer as everyone stares in shock. When Thor takes it, Vision walks off.]

Thor: Right. [pats Stark on the shoulder] Well done.

Steve Rogers: [to the others] Three minutes. Get what you need. 

[They all start getting ready to leave, Stark loads up FRIDAY into his Iron Man suit now that JARVIS is no longer available]

FRIDAY: Good evening, boss.

Tony Stark: No way we all get through this. If even one tin soldier is left standing, we've lost. It's gonna be blood on the floor.

Steve Rogers: I got no plans tomorrow night.

Tony Stark: I get first crack at the big guy. Iron Man's the one he's waiting for.

Vision: [walks past] That's true, he hates you the most.

Steve Rogers: Ultron knows we're coming. Odds are we'll be riding into heavy fire, and that's what we signed up for. But the people of Sokovia, they didn't. So our priority is getting them out. 

[Pietro speeds into the Sokovian police station]

Pietro Maximoff: We're under attack! Clear the city, now! [no one takes this seriously so Pietro returns with a rifle and starts shooting in the air] Get off your asses. 

[Wanda uses her mind powers on the people of Sokovia to get them to evacuate]

Steve Rogers: All they want is to live their lives in peace, and that's not going to happen today. But we can do our best to protect them. And we can get the job done, and find out what Ultron's been building. We find Romanoff, and we clear the field. Keep the fight between us. Ultron thinks we're monsters and we're what's wrong with the world. This isn't just about beating him. It's about whether he's right.

Bruce Banner: [inside her cell, Natasha hears Banner's voice] Natasha! Natasha!

Natasha Romanoff: Bruce?

Bruce Banner: [he walks over to her cell] You alright?

Natasha Romanoff: Yeah.

Bruce Banner: The team's in the city, it's about to light up.

Natasha Romanoff: I don't suppose you found a key lying around somewhere?

Bruce Banner: Yeah, I did. [holds up an alien rifle and blasts the cell door open]

Natasha Romanoff: So what's our play?

Bruce Banner: I'm here to get you to safety.

Natasha Romanoff: Job's not finished.

Bruce Banner: We could help with the evacuation, but I can't be in a fight near civilians. And you've done plenty. Our fight is over.

Natasha Romanoff: So we just disappear? 

FRIDAY: [as the city is being evacuated] Your man's in the church, boss. I think he's waiting for you. [Stark flies into the church]

Ultron: Come to confess your sins?

Tony Stark: I don't know, how much time you got?

Ultron: More than you.

Tony Stark: Uhhh. Have you been juicing? A little Vibranium cocktail? You're looking, I don't wanna say, puffy...

Ultron: You're stalling to protect the people.

Tony Stark: Well, that is the mission. Did you forget?

Ultron: I've moved beyond your mission. I'm free. [the Vibranium core he's placed beneath the floor erupts] What, you think you're the only one stalling?

FRIDAY: There's the rest of the Vibranium. Function: still unclear.

Ultron: This is how you end, Tony. This is peace in my time. 

[Ultron's army of robots start attacking the city as everyone is evacuating]

Steve Rogers: Go!

Wanda Maximoff: Get off the bridge! Run! 

[Vision then finds Ultron]

Vision: Ultron.

Ultron: My Vision. They really did take everything from me.

Vision: You set the terms, you can change them.

Ultron: Alright. 

[They fight, Vision begins working to shut Ultron out of the internet]

Tony Stark: FRIDAY! The Vision?

FRIDAY: Boss, it's working. He's burning Ultron out of the net, he won't escape through there.

Ultron: [to the Vision as he throws him away] You shut me out! You think I care? You take away my world, I take away yours. [he activates the Vibranium core, and the earth around Sokovia starts to crack]

Tony Stark: FRIDAY?

FRIDAY: Sokovia's going for a ride. 

Ultron: [as Sokovia is rising into the air] Do you see? The beauty of it, the inevitability. You rise, only to fall. You, Avengers, you are my meteor, my swift and terrible sword and the earth will crack with the weight of your failure. Purge me from your computers, turn my own flesh against me. It means nothing. When the dust settles, the only thing living in this world will be metal. 

Bruce Banner: [as the earth is shaking falling in around them] We gotta move.

Natasha Romanoff: You're not going to turn green?

Bruce Banner: I've got a compelling reason not to lose my cool.

Natasha Romanoff: I adore you. [she kisses Banner then pushes him off the edge] But I need the other guy. [the Hulk jumps up in front of her] Let's finish the job. [with Natasha on his back yelling in fright, Hulk gets into the city] I really hope this makes us even. Now go be a hero. [Hulk goes off and Natasha rushes off in the opposite direction]

FRIDAY: The Vibranium core has got a magnetic field, that's what's keeping the rock together.

Tony Stark: If it drops?

FRIDAY: Right now the impact would kill thousands. Once it gets high enough: Global extinction. [Stark flies towards the city and a building starts to collapse as the ground shakes] That building's not clear, the tenth floor. [Stark flies in to find a family still in their apartment]

Tony Stark: Hi. Okay. Get in the tub! [Stark flies the family in the tub out of the collapsing building]

FRIDAY: I got airborne, heading up to the bridge.

Tony Stark: Cap, you got incoming.

Steve Rogers: Incoming already came in. Stark, you worry about bringing the city back down safely. The rest of us have one job: tear these things apart. You get hurt, hurt 'em back. You get killed, walk it off. 

[Barton gets Wanda out of the way and into a building as Ultron's robots overwhelm them]

Clint Barton: Go, go, move!

Wanda Maximoff: How could I let this happen? [Wanda starts to break down]

Clint Barton: Hey, hey, you okay?

Wanda Maximoff: This is all our fault.

Clint Barton: Hey, look at me. It's your fault, it's everyone's fault, who cares. Are you up for this? Are you? Look, I just need to know, cause the city is flying. Okay, look, the city is flying, we're fighting an army of robots, and I have a bow and arrow. None of this makes sense. But I'm going back out there because it's my job. Okay? And I can't do my job and babysit. It doesn't matter what you did, or what you were. If you go out there, you fight, and you fight to kill. Stay in here, you're good, I'll send your brother to come find you, but if you step out that door, you are an Avenger. [Wanda just looks at him] Alright, good chat. [he gets up and gets ready to leave] Yeah, the city is flying. [he leaves and starts shooting at the robots]

Steve Rogers: [to the woman Thor threw up at Steve after her car fell of the edge of a collapsing bridge] I got you! Just look at me. [Steve helps her up to safety]

Ultron: You can't save them all. You'll never-- [he throws the attacking robots off the edge of the bridge]

Steve Rogers: You'll never what? You didn't finish! [Thor lands on the bridge on the top of another car he was saving] What, were you napping?

Ultron: [as Thor and Steve are fighting off the robots] Thor! You're bothering me. 

[As Barton is fighting off the robots, Wanda comes out of the building and starts to use her powers on the robots to destroy them]

Clint Barton: Alright, we're all clear here.

Steve Rogers: We are not clear! We are very not clear!

Clint Barton: Alright, coming to you. [just then Pietro speeds in, picks up Wanda and leaves]

Pietro Maximoff: Keep up old man! 

Clint Barton: [Barton aims an arrow at Pietro] Nobody would know. Nobody. [He starts jogging towards the action.] "The last I saw him, when Ultron was sitting on him. Uh...yeah, he'll be missed, that quick little bastard. I miss him already."

Soldier: [as Wanda uses her powers to destroy the robots] Hold your fire!

Steve Rogers: [as Natasha joins them in their battle with the robots] Romanoff! 	

Natasha Romanoff: Thanks. 

[Back to Stark]

FRIDAY: The anti-gravs are rigged to flip. Touch 'em, they'll go full reverse thrust. The city's not coming down slow.

Tony Stark: The spire's Vibranium. If I get Thor to hit it...

FRIDAY: It'll crack, but that's not enough, the impact would still be devastating.

Tony Stark: Maybe if we cap the other end, keep the atomic action doubling back.

FRIDAY: That could vaporize the city, and everyone on it.

Steve Rogers: The next wave's gonna hit any minute. What have you got, Stark?

Tony Stark: Well, nothing great. Maybe a way to blow up the city. That'll keep it from impacting the surface if you guys can get clear.

Steve Rogers: I asked for a solution, not an escape plan.

Tony Stark: Impact radius is getting bigger every second. We're going to have to make a choice.

Natasha Romanoff: Cap, these people are going nowhere. If Stark finds a way to blow this rock...

Steve Rogers: Not 'til everyone's safe.

Natasha Romanoff: Everyone up here versus everyone down there? There's no math there.

Steve Rogers: I'm not leaving this rock with one civilian on it.

Natasha Romanoff: I didn't say we should leave. [Steve turns to look at her] There's worse ways to go. Where else am I gonna get a view like this?

Nick Fury: [over comms] Glad you like the view, Romanoff. It's about to get better. [the Helicarrier show up; cut to interior] Nice, right? I pulled her out of mothballs with a couple of old friends. She's dusty, but she'll do.

Steve Rogers: Fury, you son of a bitch.

Nick Fury: Oooh! You kiss your mother with that mouth?

Maria Hill: Altitude is eighteen thousand and climbing.

Specialist Cameron Klein: Lifeboats secure to deploy. Disengage in three, two... take 'em out. 

Pietro Maximoff: [as they watch the lifeboats fly in towards them] This is SHIELD?

Steve Rogers: This is what SHIELD's supposed to be.

Pietro Maximoff: This is not so bad.

Steve Rogers: Let's load 'em up.

Maria Hill: Sir, we have multiple bogies converging on our starboard flank.

Nick Fury: Show 'em what we got.

Maria Hill: You're up. 

[Rhodes shows up in his War Machine suit and blasts one of the robots]

James Rhodes: Yes! Now this is gonna be a good story.

Tony Stark: Yep. If you live to tell it.

James Rhodes: You think I can't hold my own?

Tony Stark: We get through this, I'll hold your own.

James Rhodes: You had to make it weird.

Clint Barton: [as the team helps the people onto the Helicarrier lifeboats] Alright, let's load 'em up! Alright, here we go. Here we go, let's move. Let's go everyone!

Specialist Cameron Klein: Number six boat is topped and locked. Or, uh, or stocked, topped. It... it's, uh, full of people.

Maria Hill: Incoming! [one of the robots crashes in through the Helicarrier window]

Specialist Cameron Klein: Oh, God! [Hill shoots at it and Fury stabs in with a piece of metal, destroying it]

Ultron: [as he's hitting Thor] You think you're saving anyone? I turn that key and drop this rock a little early and it's still billions dead. Even you can't stop that.

Thor: I am Thor, son of Odin, and as long as there is life in my breast, I am...running out of things to say! Are you ready? [Vision uses Thor's hammer to hit Ultron. Vision then throws the hammer back to Thor]

Vision: It's terribly well balanced.

Thor: Well, if there's too much weight, you lose power on the swing, so.

Tony Stark: I got it! Create a heat seal. I can...I can supercharge the spire from below.

FRIDAY: Running numbers. [Stark fights off the robots from the Helicarrier's lifeboats] A heat seal could work with enough power.

Tony Stark: Thor, I got a plan!

Thor: We're out of time. They're coming for the core.

Tony Stark: Rhodey, get the rest of the people on board that carrier.

James Rhodes: On it.

Tony Stark: Avengers, time to work for a living.

Pietro Maximoff: [the rest of the team joins Thor and Vision; to Wanda] You good?

Wanda Maximoff: Yeah.

Tony Stark: Romanoff? You and Banner better not be playing "hide the zucchini."

Natasha Romanoff: Relax, Shell-head. Not all of us can fly. [as she joins the rest of the team] What's the drill?

Tony Stark: [points to the Vibranium core] This is the drill. If Ultron gets a hand on the core, we lose. 

[Ultron shows up]

Thor: Is that the best you can do? 

[Ultron summons his army of robots to join him]

Steve Rogers: You had to ask.

Ultron: This is the best I can do. This is exactly what I wanted. All of you, against all of me. How could you possibly hope to stop me?

Tony Stark: Well, like the old man said. Together. 

Ultron: You know, with the benefit of hin[A cinematic sequence; they all collectively fight off Ultron's robots with their own respective abilities. Ultron and Vision start battling it out. After a moment, Thor and Stark join him. The combined power is enough to damage Ultron's Vibranium body.]dsight-- [Hulk interrupts him by knocking him far away. The robots start to retreat]

Thor: They'll try to leave the city.

Tony Stark: We can't let 'em, not even one. Rhodey!

James Rhodes: I'm on it. [to the approaching robots] Oh, no, I didn't say you could leave. War Machine, comin' at you, right-- [Vision flies in and helps to destroy the robots] Okay, what?

Steve Rogers: We gotta move out. Even I can tell the air is getting thin. You guys get to the boats, I'll sweep for stragglers, be right behind you.

Clint Barton: What about the core?

Wanda Maximoff: I'll protect it. It's my job. [Steve, Barton and Natasha leave; to Pietro] Get the people on the boats.

Pietro Maximoff: I'm not going to leave you here.

Wanda Maximoff: I can handle this. [she blasts off an approaching robot] Come back for me when everyone else is off, not before.

Pietro Maximoff: Hmm.

Wanda Maximoff: You understand?

Pietro Maximoff: You know, I'm twelve minutes older than you. 

Wanda Maximoff: [Wanda chuckles] Go.

FRIDAY: Boss, power levels are way below opt...

Tony Stark: Re-route everything. We get one shot at this. 

[Barton and Natasha are making their way to the lifeboats]

Clint Barton: I know what I need to do. The dining room! If I knock out that east wall, it'll make a nice work space for Laura, huh? Put up some baffling, she can't hear the kids running around, what do you think?

Natasha Romanoff: You guys always eat in the kitchen anyway.

Clint Barton: No one eats in a dining room. [they reach the lifeboats] We don't have a lot of time.

Natasha Romanoff: So get your ass on a boat. [Natasha finds the Hulk] Hey, big guy. Sun's getting real low. 

[Barton gets onto one of the lifeboats, but notices a woman calling out for someone]

Zrinka: Costel? We were in the market. Costel?! 

[Barton runs off to find the boy]

Tony Stark: Thor, I'm gonna need you back in the church.

Thor: [referring to the people getting onto the lifeboats; to Steve] Is this the last of them?

Steve Rogers: Yeah. Everyone else is on the carrier.

Tony Stark: You know, if this works, we maybe don't walk away.

Thor: Maybe not. 

[As Natasha tries to calm Hulk down to get him back to being Banner Ultron flies in with a jet and starts shooting at them]

Ultron: [sings] I got no strings, so I have fun. I'm not tied up to anyone. [as Barton is saving the boy, Costel, Ultron starts shooting at them. Barton prepares to take the shots to save the kid, but Pietro runs into the line of fire and takes the shots to save both of them]

Pietro Maximoff: You didn't see that coming. [Pietro falls to the ground as he dies. In the church, Wanda senses his death, causing her to fall in despair, and release a wave of energy that destroys all the robots around her.]

[Hulk drops Natasha off onto the Helicarrier and then jumps onto the jet Ultron is on]

Ultron: Oh, for God's sake! 

[Hulk throws Ultron out of the jet and he crashes inside a train; at the same time Barton delivers Costel safely to his sister onto the lifeboat, a man goes over to help him with his wounds]

Clint Barton: No, no. I'm fine. [Barton lies down next to the dead body of Pietro] Oh, it's been a long day. 

[Wanda then finds Ultron]

Ultron: Wanda. If you stay here, you'll die.

Wanda Maximoff: I just did. Do you know how it felt? [she uses her power to rip Ultron's core out of his body] It felt like that. 

[One remaining robot turns the key in the church, and the city starts falling]

[Stark fires a powerful blast to the core underneath the floating city]

Tony Stark: Thor, on my mark. [Thor brings on a blast of lightning, at the same time Vision flies in, picks up Wanda and flies off with her as the city is being destroyed] Now! 

[Thor uses his hammer to hit the Vibranium core in the church, destroying the core and the floating city]

Natasha Romanoff: [to Hulk from a screen as he remains on the jet he knocked Ultron out of] Hey, big guy. We did it, the job's finished. Now I need you to turn this bird around, okay? We can't track you in stealth mode, so help me out. I need you t-- [Hulk turns off Natasha's camera, then sits as the jet flies off to an unknown destination]

[Vision finds Ultron]

Vision: You're afraid.

Ultron: Of you?

Vision: Of death. You're the last one.

Ultron: You were supposed to be the last. Stark asked for a savior, and settled for a slave.

Vision: I suppose we're both disappointments.

Ultron: [Ultron chuckles] I suppose we are.

Vision: Humans are odd. They think order and chaos are somehow opposites, and try to control what won't be. But there is grace in their failings. I think you missed that.

Ultron: They're doomed.

Vision: Yes. But a thing isn't beautiful because it lasts. It's a privilege to be among them.

Ultron: You're unbearably naive.

Vision: Well, I was born yesterday. [as Ultron goes to attack him Vision uses the infinity stone in his head to destroy him]

[We see Barton returning to his family on the farm, followed by Stark driving to the new Avengers facility in upstate New York]

Laura Barton: [From a video of Barton's new baby on Natasha's phone] Say hi to Auntie Nat. [Natasha sees the baby has been named Nathaniel Pietro Barton]

Natasha Romanoff: Fat.

Nick Fury: One of our tech boys flagged this, splashed down in the Banda Sea. Could be the Quinjet. But with Stark's stealth tech, we still can't track the damn thing.

Natasha Romanoff: Right.

Nick Fury: Probably jumped out and swam to Fiji. He'll send a postcard.

Natasha Romanoff: "Wish you were here." You sent me to recruit him, way back when. Did you know then what was going to happen?

Nick Fury: You never know. You hope for the best and make do with what you get. I got a great team.

Natasha Romanoff: Nothing lasts forever.

Nick Fury: Trouble, Miss Romanoff. No matter who wins or loses, trouble still comes around.

Steve Rogers: The rules have changed.

Tony Stark: We're dealing with something new.

Steve Rogers: Well, the Vision's artificial intelligence.

Tony Stark: A machine.

Steve Rogers: So it doesn't count.

Tony Stark: No. It's not like a person lifting the hammer.

Steve Rogers: Right. Different rules for us.

Tony Stark: Nice guy, but artificial.

Steve Rogers: Thank you.

Thor: If he can wield the hammer, he can keep the Mind Stone. It's safe with the Vision and these days, safe is in short supply.

Steve Rogers: But if you put the hammer in an elevator...

Tony Stark: It would still go up.

Steve Rogers: Elevator's not worthy.

Thor: I'm going to miss these little talks of ours.

Tony Stark: Well, not if you don't leave.

Thor: I have no choice. The Mind Stone is the fourth of the Infinity Stones to show up in the last few years. That's not a coincidence. Someone has been playing an intricate game and has made pawns of us. But once all these pieces are in position...

Tony Stark: Triple Yahtzee?

Steve Rogers: You think you can find out what's coming?

Thor: I do. [In reference to Stark] Besides this one, there's nothing that can't be explained. [Thor returns to Asgard, and the Bifrost burns a sigil in the grass he was standing on]

Tony Stark: That man has no regard for lawn maintenance. I'm gonna miss him though. And you're gonna miss me. There's gonna be a lot of manful tears. [as they walk over towards Stark's car]

Steve Rogers: I will miss you, Tony.

Tony Stark: Yeah? Well, it's time for me to tap out. Maybe I should take a page out of Barton's book and build Pepper a farm, hope nobody blows it up.

Steve Rogers: The simple life.

Tony Stark: You'll get there one day.

Steve Rogers: I don't know, family, stability. The guy who wanted all that went in the ice seventy-five years ago. I think someone else came out. [Stark turns to get into his car]

Tony Stark: You alright?

Steve Rogers: I'm home. [Stark gets into his car; Steve finds Natasha standing alone] You want to keep staring at the wall, or do you want to go to work? I mean, it's a pretty interesting wall.

Natasha Romanoff: I thought you and Tony were still gazing into each other's eyes. How do we look?

Steve Rogers: Well, we're not the '27 Yankees. [hands Natasha a tablet]

Natasha Romanoff: We've got some hitters.

Steve Rogers: They're good. They're not a team.

Natasha Romanoff: Let's beat 'em into shape. [they gather Rhodes in his War Machine suit, Vision, Sam in his Falcon suit, and Wanda in a new outfit.]

Steve Rogers: Avengers...! 

[mid-credits scene; we see the Infinity Gauntlet without any of the Stones, dissatisfied Thanos opens a vault and puts on The Infinty Gauntlet, revealing himself]

Thanos: Fine, I'll do it myself.

END OF AVENGERS: AGE OF ULTRON

[Marvel Opening Credits]

[Radio transmission sound]

[The Marvel Studios Logo plays as usual but this time, at the end of that logo, the background changes from red to black and the I and O in "Studios" become 10 in red. The logo now reads "Marvel Stud10s". Throughout the logo, an Asgardian is reporting a distress signal.]

Asgardian PA: This is the Asgardian refugee vessel Statesman. We are under assault, I repeat, we are under assault - The engines are dead, life support failing. Requesting aid from any vessel within range. We are 22 jump points out of Asgard. [The voice becomes more desperate and pleading] Our crew is made up of Asgardian families, we have very few soldiers here. This is not a warcraft. I repeat, this is not a warcraft! [The ship is being hit by missiles.]

[Inside the ship, Ebony Maw walks among the bodies of dead Asgardians. Heimdall, badly wounded, reaches out as if he would stop Maw as he passes, but lacks the strength. Maw steps over them with no mind as he speaks, as if they were scattered pieces of dirty clothing on a bedroom floor.]

Ebony Maw: Hear me, and rejoice. You have had the privilege of being saved by the Great Titan....

Ebony Maw: You may think this is suffering...no. It is salvation. 

Ebony Maw: Universal scales tip toward balance because of your sacrifice. 

Ebony Maw: Smile... 

[Corvus Glaive stabs one of the lingering Asgardians.]

Ebony Maw:...for even in death, you have become Children of Thanos.

[Loki stands with the Black Order. He watches Thanos, shrouded in darkness and light, looking out the large window we saw at the end of Thor: Ragnarok.]

Thanos: I know what it's like to lose. 

Thanos: To feel so desperately that you're right...yet to fail, nonetheless. 

[He lifts Thor by the neck of his breastplate, the latter struggling feebly.]

Thanos: It's frightening. Turns the legs to jelly.

Thanos: I ask you, to what end? 

Thanos: Dread it...run from it...destiny arrives all the same. 

Thanos: And now, it's here. Or should I say...i am.

[Thanos holds up his hand to reveal the Infinity Gauntlet, which already hosts the violet Power Stone.]

Thor: [Now being held by Thanos with one huge hand wrapping around his head; blood drools from his mouth] You talk too much.

Thanos: [To Loki] The Tesseract, or your brother's head. I assume you have a preference.

[The Black Order heft their weapons or smirks, as appropriate.]

Loki: Oh, I do. Kill away!

[Thanos' face expresses surprise briefly before presses the gauntlet to Thor's left temple. The Power Stone glows brightly. Thor screams hoarsely.]

[Loki starts to lose his cool demeanor almost immediately as Thor suffers, and breaks after only a few moments.]

Loki: ALL RIGHT, STOP!

Thor: We don't have the Tesseract. It was destroyed on Asgard.

[Loki glances at Thor like he knows something he doesn't. He lifts his right hand into the air and the Tesseract reveals itself.]

Thor: You...really are the worst brother.

Loki: [While holding the Tesseract out to Thanos and advancing] I assure you, brother...the sun will shine on us again.

Thanos: Your optimism is misplaced, Asgardian.

Loki: Well, for one thing, I'm not Asgardian. 

[The Mad Titan listens.]

Loki: And for another...we have a Hulk.

[Thanos looks to his right just as a green and very angry mass slams into him. Loki dives for Thor, pulling both of them out of the way as the Tesseract skitters across the floor, and the Hulk charges Thanos.]

Hulk: *roars*

[The Hulk pummels Thanos, forcing him backwards and shoving him into the wall of the ship. Maw stops Cull Obsidian from interfering.]

Ebony Maw: Let him have his fun.

[Thanos pries the Hulk's hands away; an expression of surprise and fear crosses his green face. Before he has the chance to throw more punches at him, The Mad Titan hits him in the neck, and quickly turns the tide of the battle on his favor.]

[After several hard blows (and a knee to the face), Thanos picks up the Hulk and slams him to the deck, defeated. Thor slams a metal bar across Thanos' back to no avail. He is then kicked across the deck by Thanos and is promptly bound in metal debris by Ebony Maw to keep him from interfering further.]

[Heimdall glances at Thor for a moment before lifting his Hofund and praying.]

Heimdall: Allfathers…

Heimdall: let the dark magic flow through me one last...time.

[He summons the Bifrost, which carries the Hulk away. This, however, attracts the Mad Titan's attention.]

Thanos: That was a mistake.

[He borrows Corvus's glaive and stabs Heimdall through the heart, twisting the blade in the wound.]

Thor: NOOOOOOOOOO!!!

[Heimdall breathes his last.]

Thor: You're going to die for that!

[Ebony May seals Thor's mouth shut with a pair of metal braces.]

Ebony Maw: Shhhhh....

[He kneels before Thanos, offering up the Tesseract]

Ebony Maw: My humble personage…bows before your grandeur. 

Ebony Maw: No other being has ever had the might, nay the nobility, to wield not one, but two Infinity Stones. 

[Thanos takes the Tesseract...]

Ebony Maw: The universe lies within your grasp.

[...before crushing it, revealing the blue Space Stone. He blows some of the fractals away, fingering the Stone between his thumb and index, before placing it on the gauntlet.]

[Thanos is momentarily rocked by the surge of energy that pulses as the stone seats in its setting.]

Thanos: There are two more Stones on Earth. 

Thanos: Find them, my children, and bring them to me on Titan.

Proxima Midnight: [Kneeling] Father, we will not fail you.

Loki: [Emerging from behind the Black Order, cheerfully] If I might...interject… if you're going to Earth, you might want a guide. I do have a bit of...experience in that arena.

Thanos: [Unimpressed] If you consider failure experience.

Loki: I consider experience, experience. 

Loki: Almighty Thanos, I...Loki...Prince of Asgard... 

[He looks significantly at Thor.]

Loki:...odinson...

Loki: The rightful King of Jotunheim... God of Mischief...o hereby pledge to you...

[Thor squints and notices a dagger materialize in Loki's hand.]

Loki:...my undying fidelity.

[Loki braces himself, thrusts upward with lightning speed and attempts to skewer The Mad Titan's neck, but is frozen in place by the Space Stone's power before the point could strike home.]

Thanos: "Undying?" 

Thanos: You should choose your words more carefully.

[Thanos twists the dagger out of Loki's hand with his right hand, then takes hold of Loki's neck with the gauntlet and lifts him to eye level. Loki struggles, kicking, as his throat is squeezed. He makes eye contact with Thor before he increases his force on Loki's neck.]

[Loki eventually gives up on trying to set himself free.]

Loki: you...will never be...

Loki:...a god.

[Thanos crushes Loki's neck, killing him.]

Thor:[Muffled] NO!

[He walks over and drops Loki's body in front of Thor.]

Thanos: No resurrections this time.

[Thanos raises the gauntlet, sends violet Power fire through the remains of the Statesman, and uses the Space Stone to teleport away with the Black Order.]

Thor: No…Loki….

[Thor is released from his bonds. He crawls over to Loki's body -- which, unlike in The Dark World, has not returned to its Jotun form -- and lays his head down on Loki's chest, shedding tears for all that he has lost. The ship explodes.]

[The Bifrost continues its journey, bringing the Hulk across space to Earth.]

[Sanctum Sanctorum, New York City]

[Doctor Strange, Master of the Mystic Arts, proceeds down the main steps of the Sanctum with Wong.]

Stephen Strange: [Dressed in casual American clothes.] Seriously? You don't have any money?

Wong: [Dressed as Wong is always dressed.] Attachment to the material is detachment from the spiritual.

Stephen Strange: I'll tell the guys at the deli. [Wryly] Maybe they'll make you a metaphysical ham on rye.

Wong: Oh, wait, wait, wait, I think I have 200.

Stephen Strange: Dollars?

Wong: Rupees.

Stephen Strange: Which is?

Wong: Uh, buck and a half.

Stephen Strange: What do you want?

Wong: I wouldn't say no to a tuna melt.

[Bruce crash-lands through the Sanctum stairs. The Cloak of Levitation swirls around Strange's shoulders immediately.]

Bruce Banner *out of breath*: Thanos is coming. He's coming...

Stephen Strange: [Sharing a look with Wong, and now fully in his mage attire] Who?

[Title Screen: Avengers: Infinity War]

[Public Park, New York City, day. Tony Stark and Pepper Potts walk on having a conversation.]

Tony Stark: Slow down, slow down. I'm totally not kidding.

Pepper Potts: [Laughing slightly and talking over him] You're totally rambling.

Tony Stark: [Also talking over her] No, I'm not.

Pepper Potts: Lost me.

Tony Stark: Look, you know how you're having a dream, and in the dream you gotta pee?

Pepper Potts: Yeah.

Tony Stark: Okay, and then you're like, 'Oh my god, there's no bathroom, what am I gonna do?', 'Oh! Someone's watching,' ''m gonna go in my pants.'

Pepper Potts: Right. And then you wake up, and in real life you actually have to pee.

Tony Stark: Yes.

Pepper Potts: Yeah. Everybody has that.

Tony Stark: Right! That's the point I'm trying to make. Apropos of that, last night, I dreamt, we had a kid. So real. We named him after your eccentric uncle. Uh, what was his name?

Pepper Potts: [Nodding in understanding] Right.

Tony Stark: Morgan! Morgan.

Pepper Potts: So you woke up, and thought that we were...

Tony Stark: Expecting.

Pepper Potts: Yeah.

Tony Stark: [Becoming excited] Yes?

Pepper Potts: [Shaking her head] No.

Tony Stark: I had a dream about it. It was so real.

Pepper Potts: If you wanted to have a kid, you wouldn't have done that.

[Pepper unties his jacket sleeves and taps Tony's chest attachment.]

Tony Stark: I'm glad you brought this up, 'cause it's nothing. It's just a housing unit for nano particles.

Pepper Potts: It's not helping your case, OK?

Tony Stark: No, no, it's an attachment, it's not a-

Pepper Potts: [Insistently] You don't need that.

Tony Stark: I know. I had the surgery. I'm just trying to protect us. The future uses, and that's it. Just in case there's a monster in the closet, instead of, you know...

Pepper Potts: Shirts?

Tony Stark: You know me so well. You finish all my sentences.

Pepper Potts: You should have shirts in your closet.

Tony Stark: Yeah. You know what there should be? No more surprises. We're gonna have a nice dinner tonight. Show off this Harry Win-stone. Right? And we should have no more surprises. Ever. I should promise you.

Pepper Potts: Yes.

Tony Stark: I will. 

[Tony kisses Pepper.]

[Doctor Strange comes through a portal.]

Stephen Strange: Tony Stark, I'm Doctor Stephen Strange. I need you to come with me. Oh, uh, congratulations on the wedding, by the way.

[Tony and Pepper are understandably shocked.]

Tony Stark: I'm sorry, you giving out tickets or something?

Stephen Strange: We need your help. Look, it's not overselling to say that the fate of the universe is at stake.

Tony Stark: And who's "we"?

Bruce Banner: [Emerges from behind Doctor Strange] Hey, Tony.

Tony Stark: [Looking surprised] Bruce.

Bruce Banner: Pepper.

Pepper Potts: Hi.

Tony Stark: You okay?

[Bruce gives Tony a desperate hug, not answering. After everything he has been through, we understand.]

[Back at the Sanctum Sanctorum.]

Wong: [Using magic to show the universe and five out of six Infinity Stones.] From the dawn of the universe, there was nothing. Then, boom! The Big Bang sent six elemental crystals, hurtling across the virgin universe. These Infinity Stones each control an essential aspect of existence.

Stephen Strange: [Each Stone lights up as Dr. Strange names them.] Space. Reality. Power. Soul. Mind. And Time.

[Dr. Strange opens the Eye of Agamotto, revealing the Time Stone emitting emerald light.]

Tony Stark: [Very attentive] Tell me his name again.

Bruce Banner: Thanos. He's a plague, Tony. He invades planets. He takes what he wants. He wipes out half the population. He sent Loki. The attack on New York. That's him!

Tony Stark: [Speaking to himself] This is it...What's our timeline?

Bruce Banner: No telling. He has the Power and Space Stones, that already makes him the strongest creature in the whole universe. If he gets his hands, on all six Stones, Tony...

Stephen Strange: He can destroy life on a scale hitherto undreamt of.

Tony Stark: [Leans against a cauldron, stretching like he's about to go for a run.] Did you seriously just say "hitherto undreamt of"?

Stephen Strange: Are you seriously leaning on the Cauldron of the Cosmos?

Tony Stark: Is that what this is?-

[The Cloak of Levitation smacks Tony's arm, surprising him.]

Tony Stark: [Looking offended] [Straightening himself] I'm going to allow that. 

Tony Stark: If Thanos needs all six, why don't we just stick this one down the garbage disposal?

Stephen Strange: No can do.

Wong: We swore an oath to protect the Time Stone. With our lives.

Tony Stark: And I swore off dairy, but then, Ben & Jerry's named a flavor after me, so....

Stephen Strange: Stark Raving Hazelnuts.

Tony Stark: It's not bad.

Stephen Strange: A bit chalky.

Wong: A Hunka-Hulka Burning Fudge is our favorite.

Bruce Banner: That's a thing?

Tony Stark: Whatever. Point is: things change.

Stephen Strange: Our oath to protect the Time Stone cannot change. This Stone may be the best chance we have against Thanos.

Tony Stark: And still conversely, it may also be his best chance against us.

Stephen Strange: Well, if we don't do our jobs.

Tony Stark: [Slightly condescending] What is your job exactly, besides making balloon animals?

Stephen Strange: [Completely calm] Protecting your reality, douchebag.

[You seriously can't tell who's sarcasm is better.]

Bruce Banner: Okay, guys, could we table this discussion right now? The fact is that we have this Stone. We know where it is. Vision is out there somewhere with the Mind Stone, and we have to find him now.

Tony Stark: [Awkwardly] Yeah, that's the thing...

Bruce Banner: What do you mean?

Tony Stark: Two weeks ago, Vision turned off his transponder. He's offline.

Bruce Banner: What? Tony, you lost another super bot?

Tony Stark: I didn't lose him. He's more than that. He's evolving.

Stephen Strange: Who could find Vision, then?

Tony Stark: [Quietly to himself] Shit. [To the other men in a normal tone] Probably Steve Rogers.

Stephen Strange: [Sighing in exasperation] Oh, great.

Tony Stark: Maybe. But... [Sighs]

Bruce Banner: [Missing the events of the Avengers' Civil War] Call him.

Tony Stark: It's not that easy. God, we haven't caught up in a spell, have we?

Bruce Banner: No.

Tony Stark: The Avengers broke up. We're toast.

Bruce Banner: [Rather surprised and slightly let-down] Broke up? Like a band? Like The Beatles?

Tony Stark: Cap and I fell out hard. We're not on speaking terms.

Bruce Banner: [Almost pleading] Tony, listen to me. Thor's gone. Thanos is coming. It doesn't matter who you're talking to or not.

[Tony hesitates, before pulling out the cellular phone Steve mailed him, muttering 'flip phone'. It seems as though he brings it everywhere, always ready to call his lost friend. Before clicking "Call", he pauses, distracted by an unusual rumbling.]

Tony Stark: Say, Doc, you wouldn't happen to be moving your hair, would you?

Stephen Strange: [Looking up at his forelock fluttering] Not at the moment, no.

[Tony looks at the Hulk-made opening through the ceiling and sees debris flying by outside. He exits the Sanctum through the front door and scans the chaotic surroundings, the camera shaking around in this following long take to illustrate the chaos -- people running and screaming in alarm, traffic becoming impossibly tangled, a litter-filled wind like a nor'easter's. A woman falls nearly at his feet and he helps her up.]

Tony Stark: You okay?

[The woman ignores him and runs away. A car crashes in on a pole behind Tony.]

Tony Stark: Help him! Wong, Doc.

Bruce Banner: Go! Got it!

Tony Stark: [Putting on his sunglasses] F.R.I.D.A.Y., what am I looking at?

F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Not sure, I'm working on it.

Tony Stark: Hey! You might wanna put that Time Stone in your back pocket, Doc!

Stephen Strange: [Bands of spells are readied around his forearms] Might wanna use it.

[A mechanical hum grows louder as Tony approaches the intersection. As he turns the corner, he sees a huge circular ship floating over Bleecker Street.]

[On a school bus, the hairs on Peter Parker's arms stand up. He looks out the window and sees the ship.]

Peter Parker: [Tapping his best friend in the seat in front of him] Ned, hey. I need you to cause a distraction.

Ned Leeds: [Turns around and sees the spaceship] Holy shit! We're all gonna die! There's a spaceship!

[Students scramble to the windows in the back to see the spaceship.]

[Peter quickly slides on one of his Stark-made webshooters, and webs the emergency exit lever on the opposite side of the bus.]

School Bus Driver, Stan Lee: What's the matter with you kids? You've never seen a spaceship before?

[Peter jumps out the window, clinging to the side of the bus and pulling on his mask before leaping over the side of the bridge, shooting a web-line and swinging free. He makes his way hastily towards the ship.]

Tony Stark: F.R.I.D.A.Y., evac anyone south of 43rd Street, notify first responders.

F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Will do.

[Doctor Strange throws the Winds of Watoomb over Bleeker Street, and winks at Tony. The dust clears. Tony is begrudgingly amused for a split second.]

[Then Ebony Maw and Cull Obsidian exit the ship by transmat.]

Ebony Maw: Hear me, and rejoice...

Ebony Maw: You are about to die at the hands of the Children of Thanos. 

Ebony Maw: Be thankful, that your meaningless lives are now contributing to the balance of-

Tony Stark: [Echoing the familiarly defiant 2008 Tony Stark] I'm sorry, Earth is closed today! You better pack it up and get outta here.

[Ebony Maw turns to Strange.]

Ebony Maw: Stonekeeper...[Gestures to Tony] Does this chattering animal speak for you?

Stephen Strange: Certainly not. I speak for myself. 

[Magical shields are readied with his fists, stepping forward.] 

Stephen Strange: But you’re trespassing in this city and on this planet. 

[Wong emulates him.]

Tony Stark: It means get lost, Squidward!

Ebony Maw: He exhausts me.

Cull Obsidian: [Two untranslated syllables]

Ebony Maw: Bring me the Stone.

Cull Obsidian: [Three untranslated syllables]

[He drops his huge alien hammer and drags it along as he obeys his brethren.]

Tony Stark: Banner, you want a piece?

Bruce Banner: No, not really, but when do I ever get what I want?

Tony Stark: That's right.

[Bruce attempts to release the Hulk. Instead of Hulk coming out easily, the most that turns green is Bruce's neck.]

Tony Stark: Been a while. Good to have you, buddy.

Bruce Banner: I just... I need to concentrate here for one second. Come on, come on, man.

Tony Stark: Where's your guy?

Bruce Banner: I don't know. We've sorta been havin' a thing.

Tony Stark: There's no time for a thing.

Bruce Banner: I know.

Tony Stark: [Points at the approaching Obsidian] That's the thing right there. Let's go.

[Bruce gives out a loud grunt, but fails to release the Hulk. Doctor Strange stares at Tony and Bruce in disbelief.]

Tony Stark: [Glances at Doctor Strange] Dude, you're embarrassing me in front of the wizards.

Bruce Banner: Tony, I'm sorry. [Stammers] Either I can't or he won't--

Tony Stark: It's okay. Hey, stand down. [to Wong] Keep an eye on him. Thank you.

Wong: I have him.

Bruce Banner: Damn it.

[As Cull Obsidian approaches the team, Tony dons his nanotech Iron Man suit in the space of three steps. He grows a shield on one arm to protect himself, then grows a set of blasters that easily throw the Dwarf back to Maw, who gestures and deflects his massive companion into some cars.]

Bruce Banner: Where'd that come from?

Tony Stark: It's nano-tech, you like it? A little something like-

[Ebony Maw creates a spike of earth that throws Iron Man far up, and attacks the rest of the team with uprooted trees and other debris. Wong summons the Shield of the Seraphim.]

Stephen Strange: Dr. Banner, if the rest of your green friend won't be joining us....

[Doctor Strange teleports Bruce to a nearby park along with half a taxi. Iron Man returns and joins the fight, pushing a car thrown by Maw back at him. Maw cuts it in half and lets the pieces fly past him, untouched.]

Tony Stark: Gotta get that stone outta here, now.

Stephen Strange: It stays with me.

Tony Stark: Exactly. Bye.

[Iron Man flies through Ebony Maw's obstacle course but is cut short by Cull Obsidian's hammer, sending him through a building and into the park at high speed, plowing into the ground and fetching up against a tree.]

Bruce Banner: [Rushing over to Iron Man] Tony, you okay? How we doing? Good? Bad?

Tony Stark: Really, really good. Really good. Do you plan on helping out?

Bruce Banner: I'm trying. He won't come out.

[Cull Obsidian arrives at the park and throws his hammer at Bruce and Iron Man.] 

Tony Stark: Hammer. [Pushes Bruce out of the way.]

[Iron Man's energy beam deflects off Cull Obsidian's shield, slicing down trees. Bruce barely evades one.]

Bruce Banner: [Crawling out from under the branches. Desperate and confused] Come on, Hulk. What are you doing to me? [Starts slapping himself multiple times] Come out! Come out! Come out!

Hulk: [Half of Bruce's face becomes the Hulk.] NOOOOOOOO!!!!!

[Bruce falls back exhausted into his tree.]

Bruce Banner: What do you mean, "no"?!

[Iron Man is knocked down by Obsidian, who is about to deliver a decisive blow, but the alien's hammer is easily caught by Spider-Man.]

Peter Parker: Hey, man. What's up, Mr. Stark?

Tony Stark: Kid, where'd you come from?

Peter Parker: Field trip to MoMA!-

[Cull Obsidian grabs Spider-Man and throws him away.]

Peter Parker: What is this guy's problem, Mr. Stark?

Tony Stark: He's from space. He came here to steal a necklace from a wizard.

[Wong and Doctor Strange fight Maw. Maw lifts several bricks from the ground and turns them into sharp points. He sends them towards Wong and Doctor Strange. The two make portals and boomerang them back towards Maw. Maw moves a car to protect himself, but one spike still hits his head, creating a cut. Angered, Maw uses a broken fire hydrant's water stream to knock Wong back several meters, rendering him unconscious.]

[Doctor Strange snaps a whip of magical energy to bind Maw's hands and yanks, but Maw flies forward with the pull and pins Doctor Strange upside-down against a building, using the bricks to trap the Sorcerer Supreme.]

Ebony Maw: Your powers are quaint. You must be popular with children.

[Maw tries to grab the amulet holding the Time Stone but jerks back when it burns his hand.]

Stephen Strange: It's a simple spell, but quite unbreakable.

Ebony Maw: [Vehemently] Then I'll take it off your corpse!

[Maw pulls Doctor Strange away from the building and throws him to the ground. Doctor Strange starts the gestures to use the Eye of Agamotto, but utility cables first pin Doctor Strange's arms, interrupting the spell and closing the Eye, while another cable winds around his torso, then tightens around his throat.]

Stephen Strange: You'll find... removing a dead man's spell...troublesome.

Ebony Maw: You'll only wish you were dead. 

[Doctor Strange falls unconscious and to the ground; Maw raises a portion of street pavement to use as a carrier, but the Cloak of Levitation works its master loose of the cable spiral and flies Doctor Strange away.]

Ebony Maw: NO!

Tony Stark: [Still fighting Cull Obsidian, as Doctor Strange passes through the park.] Kid, that's the wizard. Get on it.

Peter Parker: On it!

[Spider-Man chases Ebony Maw, floating speedily and upright on a small platform of burbling debris leaving a deep rut in the streets, who in turn chases the Cloak-driven Doctor Strange through Manhattan; Maw attacks him, throwing a Rocket Mortgage billboard at Spider-Man to be rid of him.]

Peter Parker: [Untangles himself] Not cool!

[Maw bends all the utility poles in the path of the fleeing Cloak, finally snagging the loyal garment and ripping it loose of its master. Spider-Man scoops up Doctor Strange before he hits the pavement, but before he can get away with the unconscious Doctor Strange, a cone of blue light starts pulling the mage inexorably upwards. Spider-Man grabs a light pole to anchor himself, but Maw uproots it, sending Doctor Strange, Cloak and teenager on their way to his ship.]

Peter Parker: Uhhh, Mr. Stark? I'm being beamed up!

Tony Stark: Hang on, kid. [Cull Obsidian's hammer doubles as a claw, pinning Iron Man to the ground and shorting his suit. As Obsidian jumps towards Iron Man, blades ready to end this fight, he is sent through a portal instead. The alien turns and leaps to return the same way, but Wong closes it rapidly -- only Obsidian's severed hand makes it back to the park. Bruce kicks the hand away with a noise of disgust.]

Tony Stark: [Iron Man shakes himself free of the Dwarf's weapon, now powerless.] Wong, you're invited to my wedding. [Iron Man begins to fly towards the large ship] Give me a little juice, F.R.I.D.A.Y. [Iron Man's foot thrusters morph together into a single larger jet and increase his speed considerably.]

[Ebony Maw walks towards the controls of the ship, Doctor Strange's unconscious body floating face-down behind him, and prepares to leave Earth's atmosphere.]

Tony Stark: [Still in pursuit of the ship and his protege.] Unlock 17-A. [A pod launches from the upstate Avengers headquarters and curves up to the accelerating circular ship.] Pete, you gotta let go. I'm gonna catch you.

Peter Parker: But you said save the wizard! [Spider-Man, gasping from lack of oxygen, pulls off his mask] I can't breathe!

Tony Stark: You're too high up. You're running out of air.

Peter Parker: Yeah! That makes sense.

[Peter passes out, free-falling, but not for long before the pod reaches him. It attaches itself to him, becoming the Iron Spider suit. Now being able to breathe, Spider-Man lands on a bottom part of the ship, standing up heroically.]

Peter Parker: Mr. Stark, it smells like a new car in here!

Tony Stark: Happy trails, kid. F.R.I.D.A.Y, send him home.

F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Yep.

[A large parachute extends from the new suit, snatching Spider-Man free of the ship's hull and him spiraling back to Earth.]

Peter Parker: OH, COME ON!

[Iron Man latches onto the hull and cuts a hole to board the ship, looking for wherever Strange and Ebony Maw went.]

F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Boss, incoming call from Miss Potts.

Pepper Potts: [Sounding heavily worried] Tony? Oh, my God. Are you all right? What's going on?

Tony Stark: Yeah, I'm fine. I just think we might have to push our 8:30 res.

Pepper Potts: Why?

Tony Stark: [While looking at the ship around him] Just 'cause I'll... probably not make it back for a while.

Pepper Potts: Tell me you're not on that ship.

Tony Stark: Yeah.

Pepper Potts: God, no. Please tell me you're not on that ship.

Tony Stark: Honey, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I don't know what to say.

Pepper Potts: Come back here, Tony. I swear to God….

Tony Stark: Pep….

Pepper Potts: Come back here right now! Come back!

F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Boss, we're losing her. I'm going, too….

[Spider-Man is revealed to have managed to shoot a web to the outside of the ship, foiling his parachute, and clambers inside a slowly-closing chamber.]

Peter Parker: Oh my God! [Looks at the rapidly-receding planet behind him] I should have stayed on the bus....

[Ebony Maw, hands engaged in the ship's steering mechanism, accelerates into hyperspace.]

[Meanwhile, back in New York]

[Bruce finds Tony's flip-phone in the debris on the street and picks it up thoughtfully. Wong opens up a portal back to the Sanctum.]

Bruce Banner: Where you going?

Wong: The Time Stone's been taken. The Sanctum remains unguarded. What will you do?

Bruce Banner: [Holding Rogers' cell phone] I'm gonna make a call.

[Wong nods in understanding and closes the portal, not to be seen again for the rest of the movie. Banner holds Steve Rogers' cell phone and makes a call.]

[Screen title: SPACE]

[Camera pans around a brightly colored planet with ice rings to the Benatar. The Guardians of the Galaxy are travelling to investigate a distress call to the tune of "Rubberband Man".]

Peter Quill: [Chair-dancing to the song] Sing it, Drax!

[Drax is snoring with his mouth open from his seat in front of Quill. Gamora lip-syncs with the song along with Quill.]

Rocket: [Yawns] Why are we doing this again?

Gamora: [Annoyed] It's a distress signal, Rocket. Someone could be dying.

Rocket: I get that, but why are we doing it?

Peter Quill: 'Cause we're nice. And maybe whoever it is will give us a little cheddar cheese [Quill rubs his thumb against his other fingers] for our help.

Gamora: [Waves her index finger at Quill] Which isn't the point.

Peter Quill: [Points back at Gamora] Which isn't the point... I mean… if he doesn't pony up….

Drax: We'll take his ship.

Rocket: Exactly!

Peter Quill: B-b-b-bingo!

[Gamora looks up at Quill in concern. Quill returns her look and grimaces a "don't worry about it" expression at her.]

Mantis: [Reading her console] We are arriving.

Peter Quill: All right, Guardians. Don't forget, this might be dangerous, so let's put on our mean faces. [Groot rolls his eyes as Mantis makes a snarl. Groot's handheld Terran-vintage video game beeps.] Groot, put that thing away. Now. I don't wanna tell you again. [Game continues beeping] Groot.

Groot: [In a mocking tone] I am Groot! (Translation: Shut up, bitch!)

Peter Quill: Whoa!

Rocket: Language!

Gamora: Hey!

Drax: Wow.

Peter Quill: You got some acorns on you, kid.

Rocket: Ever since you got a little sap, you're a total d-hole. Keep it up, and I'm gonna SMASH THAT THING TO PIECES!

[Groot rolls his eyes.]

[The Benatar decelerates, and Thanos' devastation suddenly covers the Guardians' field of view, revealing the distress signal to be the one from the Asgardian vessel at the beginning of the movie. Bodies are seen floating dead in space along with the pieces of the shredded ship.]

Mantis: What happened?

Rocket: Looks like we're not getting paid.

[With a thump, Thor's body is plastered to the hull of the ship.]

Rocket: [Waving his hands] Wipers! Wipers! Get it off!

[Thor’s eye opens; all gasp.]

[Cut to the Guardians settling the still-unconscious Thor onto an examination table.]

Peter Quill: How the hell is this dude still alive?

Drax: [Sounding awed] He is not a dude. You're a dude. This... this is a man. A handsome, muscular man.

Peter Quill: [A little dented]  I'm muscular.

Rocket: Who are you kidding, Quill? You're one sandwich away from fat.

Peter Quill: Yeah, right.

Drax: It's true. You have gained a little weight…. [Drax motions to his chin and belly.]

[Gamora leaves Quill's side at Thor's right, and circles around the foot of the table.]

Peter Quill: What? Gamora, do you think I'm…

Mantis: He is anxious. Angry. He feels tremendous loss and guilt.

Drax: It's like a pirate had a baby with an angel.

Peter Quill: Wow. This is a real wake-up call for me. Okay. I'm gonna get a Bow-flex. I'm gonna commit. I'm gonna get some dumbbells.

Rocket: You know you can't eat dumbbells, right?

Gamora: [Reaches Drax's side and picks up Thor's left arm, stroking his triceps] It's like his muscles are made of Cotati metal fibers.

Peter Quill: [Snidely to Gamora] Stop massaging his muscles. [Gamora, annoyed, drops the arm with a thump; quietly to Mantis] Wake him up.

Mantis: [Places hand on Thor's forehead] Wake.

[Thor awakens, sitting up violently and throwing himself off the table to stumble a few steps away, then turning to see his hosts all pointing their weapons of choice at him; Groot is still playing his game.]

Thor: Who the hell are you guys?

[Cut to later as the Guardians stand around Thor eating soup.]

Gamora: The entire time I knew Thanos, he only ever had one goal: To bring balance to the Universe by wiping out half of all life. He used to kill people planet by planet, massacre by massacre....

Drax: Including my own.

Gamora: If he gets all six Infinity Stones, he can do it with the snap of his fingers, like this. [She snaps her fingers.]

Thor: You seem to know a great deal about Thanos.

Drax: Gamora... is the daughter of Thanos.

Thor: Your father killed my brother. [Thor stands and strides towards Gamora aggressively.]

Peter Quill: Oh, boy. Stepfather. Technically, she hates him as much as you do. [Thor softens a bit.]

Thor: Families can be tough. [He claps a hand on Gamora's shoulder] Before my father died, he told me I had a half-sister... that he imprisoned in Hel. Then she returned home, and stabbed me in the eye, so... I had to kill her. It's life, isn't it, I guess. Goes round and round and... I feel your pain.

[Peter glares at Thor's hand on Gamora's shoulder, on the verge of full snarl, and moves around her to push between her and Thor.]

Peter Quill: And I feel your pain, as well. I mean it's not a competition, but I've been through a lot. My father killed my mother, then I had to kill my father. And that was hard. Probably even harder than having to kill a sister. Plus, I, came out of it with both of my eyes--

Thor: [Not paying attention as he stares at his soup spoon] I need a hammer, not a spoon…. (He attempts to fiddle with machinery) How do I open this thing? Is there some sort of a four-digit code maybe… maybe a birth date or something….

Peter Quill: What are you doing?

Thor: Taking your pod.

Peter Quill: [Clears his throat then deepens his voice] No, you're not! [Mimics Thor’s accent] You'll not, be taking our pod today, sir.

Rocket: Quill. Are you making your voice deeper?

Peter Quill: No.

Drax: You are. You're imitating the god-man. It's weird.

Peter Quill: No I'm not.

Mantis: [Gasp] He just did it again!

Peter Quill: This is my voice!

Thor: [Steps closer to Quill] Are you mocking me?

Peter Quill: Are you mocking me?

Thor: Stop it. You did it again.

Peter Quill: He's trying to copy me.

Thor: Would you stop doing that? He's doing it first.

Gamora: Enough! We need to stop Thanos. Which means we need to find out where he's going next.

Thor: Knowhere.

Mantis: He must be going somewhere.

Peter Quill: [Voice now normal] No. Knowhere? It's a place. We've been there. It sucks. Excuse me, that's our food. [To Thor as he rummages through their food stores.]

Thor: Not anymore.

Gamora: Thor… why would he go to Knowhere?

Thor: Because for years, the Reality Stone has been safely stored, there with a man we call the Collector.

Peter Quill: If it's with the Collector, then it's not safe. Only an idiot would give that man a stone.

Thor: Or a genius.

Gamora: [To Thor] How do you know he's not going for one of the other Stones?

Thor: There's six stones out there. [Finishes rummaging and steps in front of Gamora] Thanos already has the Power Stone because he stole it last week, when he decimated Xandar. He stole the Space Stone from me when he destroyed my ship and slaughtered half my people. The Time and Mind Stones are safe on Earth. They're with the Avengers.

Peter Quill: The 'Avengers'?

Thor: [By way of explanation.] Earth's Mightiest Heroes.

Mantis: Like Kevin Bacon?

Thor: [Pause] He may be on the team. I don't know. Haven't been there in a while. As for the Soul Stone, well, no one's ever seen that. No one even knows where it is. Therefore, Thanos can't get it. Therefore, he's going to Knowhere. Hence, he'll be getting the Reality Stone. You're welcome.

Gamora: Then we have to go to Knowhere now.

Thor: Wrong! Where we have to go, is Nivadellir.

Drax: That's a made up word.

Thor: All words are made up.

[It's official: mind blown.]

Rocket: Hold up, Nidavellir is real? [Climbing on to the table] Seriously? I mean, that place is a legend. [Increasingly gleeful] They make the most powerful, horrific weapons to ever torment the Universe. I would very much like to go there, please.

Thor: The rabbit is correct, and clearly the smartest among you.

Rocket: Rabbit?

Thor: Only Eitri the dwarf king can make me the weapon I need. [To Rocket] I assume you're the captain, sir?

Rocket: You're very perceptive.

Thor: You seem like a noble leader. Will you join me on my quest to Nidavellir?

Rocket: Lemme just ask the captain. Oh, wait a second, it's me! Yeah, I'll go.

Thor: Wonderful.

Peter Quill: Except for that I'm the captain.

Thor: Quiet!

Peter Quill: That's my backpack.

Rocket: Go sit down.

Peter Quill: [To Thor] Look, this is my ship. And I'm not goin' to… [gropes for "Nidavellir"] Wait, what kind of weapon are we talking about here?

Thor: The Thanos killing kind.

Peter Quill: Don't you think that we should all have a weapon like that?

Thor: No. You simply lack the strength to wield them. Your bodies will crumble as your minds collapse into the madness.

Rocket: Is it weird that I wanna do it even more now?

Thor: A little bit. Yeah.

Gamora: If we don't go to Knowhere and Thanos retrieves another stone, he'll be too powerful to stop.

Thor: He already is.

Rocket: I got it figured out. We got two ships, and a large assortment of morons. So me and Groot will go with the pirate-angel here, and the morons will go to Knowhere to try and stop Thanos. Cool? Cool.

Thor: So cool. [Smiles a big grin.]

Peter Quill: [To Rocket] For the record… I know that you're only going with him because it's where Thanos isn't.

Rocket: You know, you shouldn't talk that way to your captain, Quill. [As he enters the pod] Come on, Groot. Put that game down, you'll rot your brain.

Thor: I bid you farewell and good luck, morons. Bye.

[The Guardians nod or wave farewell as Thor, Rocket and Groot depart.]

[Cut to Scotland, where Vision and Wanda Maximoff are sharing a room. Wanda is in bed while Vision, in a human glamour, watches out a window.]

[High-pitched trilling]

Vision: [Gasps and holds his hand to the Mind Stone in pain.]

Wanda Maximoff: Vis? Is it the stone again?

Vision: It's as if it's speaking to me.

Wanda Maximoff: What does it say?

Vision: I don't... I don't know. But something... 

[The stone trills again and Vision flinches. Wanda takes his face in her hands. Vision turns his head so he can kiss her left palm, then presses Wanda's hand to the Mind Stone.]

Vision: Tell me what you feel.

[Wanda gestures, her hand emanating her red swirling energy. She seems confused.]

Wanda Maximoff: I just feel you.

[They kiss. Cut to later, where the two are going on a stroll.]

 Wanda Maximoff: So there's a 10 AM to Glasgow to give us more time together before you went back.

Vision: What if I miss that train?

Wanda Maximoff: There is an 11.

Vision: What if I missed all the trains? What if this time, I didn't go back?

Wanda Maximoff: You gave Stark your word.

Vision: I'd rather give it to you.

Wanda Maximoff: There are people who are expecting me too, you know. We both made promises.

Vision: Not to each other. [He puts his hands on her shoulders] Wanda… for two years, we've stolen these moments, trying to see if this could work. And... I don't know. [Stammers] You know what, I'm just gonna speak for myself -- I, I... I think...

Wanda Maximoff: It works.

Vision: It works.

Vision: Then stay. Stay with me.

[Wanda looks down, but then her eyes and attention drift to her left.]

Vision: [Suddenly very uncertain] Or not. If I'm overstepping…

[Wanda steps over to a better view of the TV in the kebab shop at which they had stopped, drawing Vision with her. It shows coverage of the invasion of New York, the alien antagonists, and the disappearance of Tony Stark.]

Wanda Maximoff: [Fearful] What are they?

Vision: What the stone was warning me about. [He kisses her hand] I have to go.

Wanda Maximoff: No, Vision. Vision, if that's true… then maybe going isn't the best idea.

Vision: Wanda...I-

[Corvus Glaive suddenly appears behind Vision and stabs him through the back. Vision screams, loses his glamour to return to his green, red and gold appearance, and is thrown down into the street.]

Wanda Maximoff: Vision! [She circles her hands, gathering up energy for a counterattack when Proxima Midnight blasts her from behind, knocking the Scarlet Witch across the street and through a bistro's window.]

[Corvus Glaive pins Vision down and digs the point of his high-tech glaive into Vision's forehead in an attempt to extract the Mind Stone.]

[The Scarlet Witch commits her own surprise attack, blasts both of the aliens away, then lifts Vision and herself into a nearby courtyard, from where the Scarlet Witch drags him to rest in a concealed alleyway.]

Vision: The blade. It stopped me from phasing.

Wanda Maximoff: Is that even possible?

Vision: It isn't supposed to be. [His voice distorts electronically] My systems are failing. [The Scarlet Witch gestures over his gaping wound, using her magic to knit him back together. Vision continues in a gasping, wry tone] I'm beginning to think... we should have stayed in bed.

[Corvus Glaive suddenly arrives, knocking the Scarlet aside and grabbing Vision into the air,]

Wanda Maximoff: Vis!

[Corvus flies away with Vision, slamming him against several walls. Meanwhile, Proxima engages the Scarlet Witch with her staff weapon and they too begin to fight.]

Corvus Glaive: [To Vision] Give up the Stone, and she lives.

[Vision flies with Corvus to the roof of what appears to be a church, ricocheting off the stone church tower and onto the metal-clad roof.]

[Simultaneously, Proxima and the Scarlet Witch fight below, staff weapon versus magic energy hands until Proxima uses the blaster effect of her weapon to knock the Scarlet Witch meters away, stunning her as Proxima leaps down, brandishing her weapon within bare inches of the Scarlet Witch's face, only held back by the Scarlet Witch's powers]

[Furiously, Vision pummels Corvus, then throws him across the roof, firing a beam from the Mind Stone. Corvus uses his glaive to deflect the beam, splitting it into several beams, cutting up Edinburgh's ancient stone like butter, until one branch finally reflects back at Vision, slamming him into the wall behind him.]

[Down below, the Scarlet Witch has blocked Proxima's staff once again when she hears an agonized cry from Vision. Desperation strengthens her to throw Proxima through the burning lorry sliced in half by the split Stone beam, stunning the alien. The Scarlet Witch then flies up to the roof where Glaive has pinned Vision and is again attempting to remove the Mind Stone.]

Wanda Maximoff: Hands off.

[The Scarlet Witch casts a bolt of magic which throws Corvus back through the wall and down a shaft, then flies the two of them away again. Proxima, who has recovered, shoots a bolt from her weapon, causing them to fall from the air and down through the roof of Edinburgh Waverley Train Station. Wanda crawls over to Vision, who cannot muster the strength to stand.]

Wanda Maximoff: [Hushed voice, pleading.] Come on. Come on. Come on, you gotta get up. You gotta get up. Come on. Hey. Hey. We have to go.

Vision: Please. Please leave.

Wanda Maximoff: You asked me to stay.... I'm staying.

Vision: Please.

Wanda Maximoff: Get up.

[Behind them, Proxima and Corvus crash through the roof and advance on them, brandishing their weapons. the Scarlet Witch moves protectively in front of Vision, building power in her hands.]

[An express train passes behind Wanda, and Proxima cocks her head as if aware of another's presence. Confused, the Scarlet Witch also turns and looks over her left shoulder. As the last train car passes, we see a silhouette on the far side of the platform. Proxima throws her weapon at the shadowy figure, but it is deftly caught just before the figure steps from the shadows.]

[As the Avengers theme kicks in, we now recognize a bearded and furious Steve Rogers (Captain America) as he steps into the light. Vision and the Scarlet Witch look hopeful and relieved. While all parties are distracted, Sam Wilson (Falcon) swoops in and kicks Proxima across the platform and through the closed cafe's security gate and furniture. Swooping around, he fires on Corvus.]

[At the same time, Captain America throws Proxima's weapon to Natasha Romanoff (Black Widow) who engages Corvus, ducking under his swing, stabbing him in the gut and executing a flying kick to knock him backwards.]

[Proxima, who has rushed back to the fight, summons her weapon back to her hand and attacks Black Widow. Captain America leaps forward, rolls, scoops up Corvus's dropped glaive and holds her off. Black Widow joins in with her own escrima sticks. While the three are fighting, Falcon returns and again kicks Proxima backwards; she scuttles over to the prone Corvus. Falcon draws both of his Steyr SPP submachine pistols on the couple.]

Proxima Midnight: [To Glaive] Get up.

Corvus Glaive: I can't.

Natasha Romanoff: [Coolly] We don't wanna kill you. But we will.

Proxima Midnight: You'll never get the chance again.

[Proxima Midnight and Corvus Glaive depart as they are beamed up. The glaive is snatched from Captain America's hand as well.]

Sam Wilson: [To Vision] Can you stand?

Vision: [Electricity shimmers over his surface, and his voice distorts] Thank you, Captain.

Steve Rogers: [Nods] Let's get you on the jet.

Natasha Romanoff: [Closing the doors to the Quinjet, while addressing Wanda] I thought we had a deal. Stay close, check in. Don't take any chances.

Wanda Maximoff: I'm sorry. We just wanted time.

Sam Wilson: Where to, Cap?

Steve Rogers: Home.

[Cut to the past, at Gamora's home planet Zen-Whoberi during Thanos' massacre. Gamora and her mother are hiding; the sounds of guns and screaming are outside.]

Gamora's Mother: [To Young Gamora] Shh. We'll be safe. We'll be safe.

[An explosion goes off close by and Gamora screeches by reflex, revealing their hiding spot.]

Child of Thanos: [Untranslated inquiry.]

[The door is smashed open and both Zehobereians scream.]

[Outside, it is utter chaos. Leviathans, Chitauri chariots and ring-ships fly overhead; explosions and energy bolts from numerous sources criss-cross the panicked population, felling them randomly; smoke arises from countless fires.]

Ebony Maw: Zehobereians…

Young Gamora: [Being dragged by one arm through the crowds] Mother! Where's my mother?!

Ebony Maw: Zen-Whoberis...Choose a side, or die.

Young Gamora: Mother! [She punches at the arm of the one dragging her who surprisingly drops her arm and leaves.]

Ebony Maw: One side is a revelation. The other, an honor known only to a few.

[Gamora turns and finds herself facing Thanos in his full Titan armor.]

Thanos: What's wrong, little one?

Young Gamora: My mother. Where is my mother?

Thanos: [Kneels down to Gamora] What's your name?

Young Gamora: Gamora.

Thanos: You're quite the fighter, Gamora. Come. Let me help you. 

[Thanos offers his hand; she wraps her little fingers around one massive finger, and he leads her to a pavilion, where he crouches to her eye level again and produces a small -- for him -- red-jeweled handle. Pressing the switch, razor-sharp blades pop out both ends.]

Thanos: Look. Pretty, isn't it? Perfectly balanced. As all things should be. Too much to one side, or the other… 

[He balances it on one finger, overbalances it purposefully and catches it.]

Thanos: Here. You try.

[Thanos hands Gamora the dagger -- the handle is two child-palms' widths in length. She tries balancing it on her index finger.]

Ebony Maw: Now go in peace, and meet your maker.

[One half of the crowd is shot down. The survivors scream in horror, and Gamora tries to turn but Thanos prevents her from seeing the massacre.]

Thanos: Uh-uh...concentrate. 

Thanos: There! You've got it.

[Cut to the present, aboard the GUARDIANS’ ship. Gamora is brooding, activates the spring-action blades on the same dagger.]

Peter Quill: Gamora. Do you know if these grenades are the "blow off your junk" kind or the gas kind? 'Cause I was thinking I might hang a couple on my belt right here. But I don't want to--

Gamora: I need to ask a favor.

Peter Quill: Yeah, sure.

Gamora: One way or another, the path that we're on leads to Thanos.

Peter Quill: Which is what the grenades are for. [Gamora silences him with a look.] I'm sorry. What's the favor?

Gamora: If things go wrong… If Thanos gets me… I want you to promise me… you'll kill me.

Peter Quill: [A beat. Confusion.] What?

Gamora: I know something he doesn't. If he finds out… the entire Universe could be at risk.

Peter Quill:  What do you know?

Gamora: If I tell you, you'd know, too.

Peter Quill: If it's so important, shouldn't I?

Gamora: Only if you wanna die.

Peter Quill: Why does somebody always have to die in this scenario?

Gamora: Just… trust me. And possibly, kill me.

Peter Quill: I mean, I'd like to. I really would… [Gamora silences him by covering his mouth with her hand.]

Gamora: Swear to me. Swear to me on your mother.

Peter Quill: [A beat. One that rests with him significantly.] Okay.

[The two kiss, until an odd crunching sound startles them. Drax is standing in the corner.]

Peter Quill: Dude. How long have you been standing there?

Drax: An hour.

Peter Quill: An hour? Are you serious?

Drax: I've mastered the ability of standing so incredibly still... that I become invisible to the eye... watch.

[Drax stands motionless, then very slowly raises his hand towards his mouth]

Peter Quill: You're eating a zarg-nut.

Drax: But my movement... was so slow... that it's imperceptible.

Peter Quill: Mmm, no. [Quill and Gamora shake their heads.]

Drax: I'm sure I'm invisible.

Mantis: Hi, Drax.

Drax: [Knowing when he is beat] Damn it.

[The Benatar flies towards a massive skull and flies through one eye-hole into a vast interior cavern. Screen title: KNOWHERE.]

Peter Quill: This place looks deserted.

Drax: I'm reading movement from the third quadrant.

Peter Quill: Yep. I'm picking that up, too. Let's put it down right here.

[The four Guardians disembark and sneak into the Collector’s collection room, which is in ruins. Thanos is threatening the Collector while the Guardians hide behind rubble.]

Collector: I don't have it.

Thanos: Everyone in the Galaxy knows you'd sell your own brother if you thought it would add the slightest trinket to your pathetic collection.

[Quill stops, and holds up a fist meaning 'halt' in the silent language of soldiers. Everybody walks quietly past him.]

Thanos: I know you have the Reality Stone, Tivan. Giving it to me will spare you a great deal of suffering. [Thanos places a heavy boot on the middle of the Collector's chest and presses.]

Collector: [Strained] I told you. I sold it. 

Collector: [Strained] Why would I lie?

Thanos: I imagine it's like breathing for you.

Collector: Like suicide.

Thanos: So you do understand. Not even you would surrender something so precious.

Collector: I didn't know what it was.

Thanos: Then you're more of a fool than I took you for. Last chance, charlatan. Where's the Stone?

Drax: Today...

Peter Quill: [Grasping the danger] Drax. Drax.

Drax:...He pays for the deaths of my wife and daughter.

Peter Quill: Drax, waaaaait! [Drax draws his long dagger from his leg scabbard.] Not yet, not yet, not yet. [Drax gives him a look and heads towards Thanos. Quill hurries as quietly as possible to catch up.] Drax, Drax, Drax. He doesn't have the Stone yet. We get it, and then we can stop him. We have to get the Stone first. Yeah.

Drax: No. No. For Ovette. For Camaria.

[Quill starts to struggle with Drax when Mantis puts her hand on the back of Drax's head.]

Mantis: Sleeeep. 

[Drax is knocked out, his falling body causing a loud crash. Everybody ducks.]

[Thanos looks towards the sound, then picks up the Collector and throws him into a collecting case before walking towards the disturbance.]

Peter Quill: Okay. Gamora, Mantis, you go right. I'm... [Gamora moves towards Thanos] The other right!

[Gamora leaps on Thanos from a stack of boxes, swinging her sword at him. He snaps the sword-blade in half, and Gamora stabs him in the throat with the stub, his lower jaw sagging and himself letting out a hoarse groan, then he is stabbed in the chest with the red-jeweled dagger.]

Thanos: Why? [He falls down] Why you? Daughter… [He holds his hand out to her, blood pooling out from his neck wound, before collapsing completely. Gamora breaks down, sobbing.]

Peter Quill: [Surprised] That was quick.

[The Collector starts clapping.]

Collector: Magnificent! Magnificent!!!! Magnificent!!!!!!!

[Suddenly, Thanos' disembodied voice fills the room.]

Thanos: Is it sadness I sense in you, daughter? In my heart, I knew you still cared.  

[The scene disappears -- everything in the room is destroyed and/or on fire, the Collector waving bye-bye as he and his case vanish.]

Thanos: But one ever knows for sure.

Thanos: Reality is often disappointing.

[Thanos is quite alive and undamaged.]

Thanos: That is, it was.

Thanos: Now…

[He has the red Reality Stone seated in the Infinity Gauntlet.]

Thanos: Reality can be whatever I want.

Gamora: [Her face still wet, but no longer crying] You knew I'd come.

Thanos: I counted on it. There's something we need to discuss, little one.

[Gamora hesitates for a beat, then reaches for her broken sword. Thanos grabs her by the back of the neck and swings her around in front of him.]

Gamora: NOOOOOO!

Drax: THANOS!!!

[With a pulse of the Reality Stone, both Drax and Mantis are 'disassembled' -- Drax is turned into a stack of tumbling cubes, and Mantis becomes a ribbon version of herself.]

Peter Quill: [Moving in, his blaster pointed right at Thanos] Let her go, Grimace!

Gamora: Peter…

Peter Quill: [To Gamora] I told you to go right.

Gamora: Now? Really?

Peter Quill: You let her go!

Thanos: Ah, the boyfriend.

Peter Quill: I like to think of myself more as a Titan-killing long-term booty call. Let her go.

Gamora: Peter…

Peter Quill: Or I'm gonna blow that nut sack of a chin right off your face!

Gamora: Not him.

[Quill hesitates. He does not shoot anyone.]

Gamora: You promised! You promised...

Thanos: Oh, daughter. You expect too much from him. 

Thanos: [to Quill] She's asked, hasn't she? 

Thanos: Do it. 

[There is a very tense and unpleasant pause.]

[Thanos rolls his head and shoves Gamora towards Quill’s gun, egging him on.]

Thanos: DO IT!!

Peter Quill: [Tearing up] I told you to go right.

Gamora: I love you, more than anything.

Peter Quill: I love you, too.

[Quill screws up his eyes and pulls the trigger -- but a stream of bubbles comes out. Thanos was playing him.]

Thanos: [Genuinely sincere] I like you.

[Thanos teleports Gamora and himself away as a stunned Quill picks up Gamora's sword, and his friends painfully re-assemble themselves, the Reality Stone's effects now subsiding in its absence.]

[Back on Earth, the Quinjet arrives at the upstate New York Avengers HQ while Col. James "Rhodey" Rhodes deals with the red tape in the holographic person of Secretary of State Thaddeus Ross (Lt. Gen., USA Ret.).]

Secretary Ross: Still no word from Vision?

James Rhodes: Satellites lost him somewhere over Edinburgh.

Secretary Ross: On a stolen Quinjet with four of the world's most wanted criminals.

James Rhodes: You know they're only criminals because you've chosen to call them that, right, sir?

Secretary Ross: My God, Rhodes, your talent for horseshit rivals my own.

James Rhodes: If it weren't for those Accords, Vision would've been right here.

Secretary Ross: I remember your signature on those papers, Colonel.

James Rhodes: [Sounding a little bitter] That's right. And I'm pretty sure I've paid for that. [We get a good look at his leg braces]

Secretary Ross: You have second thoughts?

James Rhodes: Not anymore.

[The fugitive Avengers enter the room, Vision supported by Sam.]

Steve Rogers: Mr. Secretary.

Secretary Ross: You got some nerve. I'll give you that.

Natasha Romanoff: You could use some of that right now.

Secretary Ross: The world's on fire. And you think, all is forgiven?

Steve Rogers: I'm not looking for forgiveness. And I'm way past asking for permission. Earth just lost her best defender. So we're here to fight. [Steve takes a step forward, looking right at Ross] And if you wanna stand in our way... we'll fight you, too.

Secretary Ross: [To Rhodes] Arrest them.

James Rhodes: All over it. [Swipes off hologram; the computer beeps twice] That's a court-martial. It's great to see you, Cap.

Steve Rogers: [Hugging Rhodes] You too, Rhodey. [Natasha gets her own embrace.]

James Rhodes: Well. You guys really look like crap. Must've been a rough couple of years.

Sam Wilson: Yeah, well, the hotels weren't exactly five star.

Bruce Banner: Uh, I think you look great. [Rhodes and Natasha long round to see Bruce walking in from the opposite end of the room.]  Uh... heh... Yeah. I'm back.

Natasha Romanoff: Hi, Bruce.

Bruce Banner: Nat.

Sam Wilson: [Whispering] This is awkward.

[Cut to a shot of Natasha, Bruce, Steve, Rhodey, Wanda, and Vision in another room.]

James Rhodes: So we gotta assume they're coming back, right?

Wanda Maximoff: And they can clearly find us.

Bruce Banner: We need all hands on deck. Where's Clint?

Natasha Romanoff: After the whole Accords situation, he and Scott took a deal. It was too tough on their families, they're on house arrest.

Bruce Banner: Who's Scott?

Steve Rogers: Ant-Man.

Bruce Banner: There's an Ant-Man and a Spider-Man? Okay, look… Thanos has the biggest army in the universe. And he is not gonna stop until he... he gets... Vision's Stone.

Natasha Romanoff: Well then, we have to protect it.

Vision: No, we have to destroy it. I've been giving a good deal of thought to this entity in my head, about its nature. But also, its composition. I think if it were exposed to a sufficiently powerful energy source, something, very similar to its own signature, perhaps… its molecular integrity could fail. [Vision addresses Wanda as he nears her.]

Wanda Maximoff: And you, with it. We're not having this conversation.

Vision: Eliminating the stone is the only way to be certain that Thanos can't get it.

Wanda Maximoff: That's too high a price.

Vision: [Takes her face gently in both hands] Only you have the power to pay it. [Wanda walks away, distressed] Thanos threatens half the Universe. One life cannot stand in the way of defeating him.

Steve Rogers: [Eyes diverted down] But it should. [Looks up at Vision] We don't trade lives, Vision.

Vision: [Walking toward Steve] Captain, 70 years ago, you laid down your life to save how many millions of people. Tell me, why is this any different?

[Steve takes a breath, but before he has a chance to answer, Bruce speaks.]

Bruce Banner: Because you might have a choice. Your mind is made up of a complex construct of overlays. J.A.R.V.I.S., Ultron, Tony, me, the Stone. All of them mixed together. All of them learning from one another.

Wanda Maximoff: You're saying Vision isn't just the stone?

Bruce Banner: I'm saying that if we take out the stone, there's still a whole lot of Vision left. Perhaps the best parts.

Natasha Romanoff: Can we do that?

Bruce Banner: Not me. Not here.

James Rhodes: You better find someone, and somewhere fast. Ross isn't exactly just gonna let you guys have your old rooms back.

Steve Rogers: I know somewhere.

[Cut to rural Wakanda, as King T'Challa and Okoye walk together, accompanied by two Kingsguard. Screen title: WAKANDA.]

Okoye: You'll have the Kingsguard, and the Dora Milaje have been alerted.

T'Challa: And the Border Tribe?

Okoye: Those that are left.

T'Challa: Send word to the Jabari as well. M'Baku likes a good fight.

Okoye: And what of this one?

T'Challa: This one may be tired of war. [James "Bucky" Buchanan Barnes is seen at a small distance throwing a bag from a pile on the ground onto a partly-filled cart, while two village children watch] But the White Wolf has rested long enough.

[The party reaches Bucky. A Kingsguards-man sets an elaborate and high-tech-looking equipment case down on the cart, opens the lid, and steps back. As the Winter Soldier approaches, he sees a new Vibranium arm in the case.]

Bucky Barnes: [With resignation] Where's the fight?

T'Challa: On its way.

[Cut to Ebony Maw interrogating Dr. Strange. Dr. Strange is floating horizontally, face down, and is surrounded by dozens of glassy needles, each about two feet long.]

Ebony Maw: In all the time I've served Thanos, I've never failed him. If I were to reach our rendezvous on Titan with the Time Stone still attached to your vaguely irritating person, there would be... judgement. [The needles start to contact Dr. Strange's face, causing an obviously painful whitish subcutaneous glow at each touch] Give me... the stone.

[Cut to Tony who is watching, hidden, from above. The Cloak of Levitation taps Stark on the arm. He raises his hand to it, ready to shoot, but he sees what it is and stands down.]

Tony Stark: Wow you're a seriously loyal piece of outerwear, aren't you?

Peter Parker: Yeah, uh, speaking of loyalty....

[Tony and the Cloak turn to face Peter, dropping down from above]

Tony Stark: What the--

Peter Parker: I know what you're gonna say.

Tony Stark: You should not be here.

[The Cloak moves to "stand" at Tony's side]

Peter Parker: I was gonna go home--

Tony Stark: I don't wanna hear it.

Peter Parker: But it was such a long way down and I just thought about you on the way...

Tony Stark: And now I gotta hear it.

[The Cloak shakes its collar in sympathy and shrugs]

Peter Parker:...And I kinda stuck to the side of the ship. And this suit is ridiculously intuitive, by the way. So if anything, it's kinda your fault that I'm here.

Tony Stark *under his breath*: God damnit...

[The Cloak looks shocked.]

Tony Stark: [Seriously] What did you just say?

Peter Parker: I take that back. And now I'm here in space.

Tony Stark: Yeah. [Tony crosses to stand right in front of Peter] Right where I don't want you to be. This isn't Coney Island. This isn't a field trip. It's a one-way ticket. You hear me? Don't pretend like you thought this through. You could not have possibly thought this through.

Peter Parker: No. I did think this through.

Tony Stark: You could not have possibly thought this through.

Peter Parker: It's just...you can't be a friendly neighborhood Spider-Man if there's no neighborhood. 

[He waits for Tony's reaction]

Peter Parker: Okay. That didn't really make any sense, but you know what I'm trying to say.

Tony Stark: [Breaths shakily, realizing he couldn't beat Peter's Logic] Come on. We got a situation. [He leads Peter over to a viewpoint on the torture below. Peter crouches to study the situation, the Cloak leaning over his shoulder.] See him down there? He's in trouble. What's your plan? Go.

Peter Parker: Um. Okay, okay... uh... [Peter and the Cloak pop back upright] Okay. Did you ever see this really old movie, Aliens?

[The Cloak lifts its collar in surprise.]

[Cut back to Ebony Maw interrogating Dr. Strange, who groans loudly.]

Ebony Maw: Painful aren't they? They were originally designed for microsurgery. And any one of them...

[At the "thump" behind him, Maw turns to see Iron Man standing there, hand repulsors ready to fire.]

Ebony Maw: ...Could end your friend's life in an instant.

Tony Stark: I gotta tell you, he's not really my friend. Saving his life is more a professional courtesy.

Ebony Maw: [Walks slowly towards Iron Man, beckoning very large, very solid metal objects to float behind him] You've saved nothing. Your powers are inconsequential compared to mine.

Tony Stark: Yeah, but the kid's seen more movies.

[Iron Man fires a rocket from his shoulder which pierces the side of the ship to Maw's right and begins to suck everything out with depressurization, especially Maw and his large objects. Dr. Strange is pulled loose of his pinnings, loses the needles, but also heads for the hole, helpless to resist. The Cape wraps around his arm and an anchor point, but Dr. Strange's arm slips loose and he keeps going. Spider-Man shoots a web strand at Dr. Strange with one hand and holds onto a piece of the ship with the other. It breaks, sending them both towards space when his Iron-Spider suit's metal arms brace him to keep him from being sucked out. Fortunately, Dr. Strange is still surrounded by the ship's atmosphere making haste to leave.]

Peter Parker: Yes! Wait what are those?!

[Spider-Man crouches with his new spider-legs, and makes a mighty leap to pulls them both back inside. Iron Man quickly sprays nanites onto the hole to plug it up. Dr. Strange safely, if emphatically, hits the floor. Ebony Maw is seen floating in space, quite dead, ice from the escaped atmosphere frosting over his grimace. Spider-Man lands on his new legs, retracts them, and finds the Cape "standing" next to him.]

Peter Parker: Hey, we haven't officially met. [He offers the Cape his hand to shake. It ignores his offer and continues to Dr. Strange.] Cool.

[Iron Man walks past Dr. Strange, shaking his head and with his armor retreating into its containment as Dr. Strange gets to his feet and becomes en-Cloaked.]

Stephen Strange: We've gotta turn this ship around.

Tony Stark: Yeah. Now he wants to run. Great plan.

Stephen Strange: No, I want to protect the stone.

[Tony walks towards the expansive front view-port, showing a hyper speed/warp effect.]

Tony Stark: [Irritably] And I want you to thank me now. Go ahead, I'm listening.

Stephen Strange: For what? Nearly blasting me into space?

Tony Stark: Who just saved your magical ass? Me.

Stephen Strange: I seriously don't know how you fit your head into that helmet.

Tony Stark: Admit it. You should have ducked out when I told you to. I tried to bench you. You refused.

Stephen Strange: Unlike everyone else in your life, I don't work for you.

Tony Stark: And due to that fact, we're now in a flying doughnut billions of miles away from Earth with no backup.

[Seriously, these two's egos are a recipe for disaster.] 

Peter Parker: [Raises his hand] I'm backup.

Tony Stark: No. You're a stowaway. [Waggles a finger between himself and Dr. Strange] The adults are talking.

Stephen Strange: I'm sorry, I'm confused as to the relationship here. Wh-- what is he, your ward?

Peter Parker: No. I'm Peter, by the way.

Stephen Strange: Dr. Strange.

Peter Parker: Oh, we're using our made-up names. Um... I'm Spider-Man, then.

Tony Stark: This ship is self-correcting its course. Thing's on autopilot.

Stephen Strange: [Walks closer to Tony] Can we control it? Fly us home? [Tony is lost in bad memories and does not respond right away.] Stark?

Tony Stark: Yeah?

Stephen Strange: Can you get us home?

Tony Stark: Yeah I heard you. I'm thinking... I'm not so sure we should.

Stephen Strange: Under no circumstance can we bring the Time Stone to Thanos. I don't think you quite understand what's at stake here.

Tony Stark: [Stalks over to Strange] No. It's you who doesn't understand, that Thanos has been inside my head for six years since he sent an army to New York and now he's back! And I don't know what to do. So I'm not so sure if it's a better plan to fight him on our turf or his but you saw what they did, what they can do. At least on his turf, he's not expecting it. So I say we take the fight to him. Doctor. Do you concur?

Stephen Strange: [Pauses] Alright, Stark. We go to him. But you have to understand... if it comes to saving you or the kid or the Time Stone... I will not hesitate to let either of you die. I can't, because the fate of the universe depends on it.

Tony Stark: Nice. Good. Moral compass. We're straight. [Stepping over to Peter, he formally taps each of Peter's shoulders with the edge of his hand, dubbing him as is done at a knighting.] Alright, kid. You're an Avenger now. [He doesn't look at him as he says those words, knowing well what he is signing him up for.]

[Peter looks at Tony in disbelief, and then cycles through delight, satisfaction, pride and determination, and braces himself for what's to come.]

[Cut to Thanos' mother-ship, Sanctuary II, which dwarfs the massive ring-ships the Black Order have been using. Gamora sits near the throne deep inside the ship. Thanos walks up, bringing a cup of food and holds it out to her.]

Thanos: I thought you might be hungry.

[Gamora takes it, then hurls it across the room where it bangs against Thanos' throne with a loud clack.]

Gamora: I always hated that chair.

Thanos: So I've been told. Even so. I'd hoped you'd sit on it one day.

Gamora: I hated this room. This ship. I hated my life.

Thanos: You told me that too. [Thanos mounts two of the four steps to his throne, turns, and sits on the second from the top.] Every day. For almost twenty years.

Gamora: I was a child when you took me.

Thanos: I saved you.

Gamora: No. No. We were happy on my home planet.

Thanos: Going to bed hungry, scrounging for scraps. Your planet was on the brink of collapse. I'm the one who stopped that. Do you know what's happened since then? The children born have known nothing but full bellies and clear skies. It's a paradise.

Gamora: Because you murdered half the planet.

Thanos: A small price to pay for salvation.

Gamora: You're insane.

Thanos: Little one, it's a simple calculus. This universe is finite, its resources finite. If life is left unchecked, life will cease to exist. It needs correction-

Gamora: YOU DON'T KNOW THAT.

Thanos: [Scowls as his egotistical narcissism prevents him from fully listening to her] I'm the only one who knows that. At least, I'm the only one with the will to act on it. [He stands again and walks back to Gamora] For a time... you had that same will... as you fought by my side. Daughter.

Gamora: I'm not your daughter. Everything I hate about myself you taught me.

Thanos: And in doing so, made you the fiercest woman in the galaxy. That's why I trusted you to find the Soul Stone.

Gamora: I'm sorry I disappointed you.

Thanos: I am disappointed. But not because you didn't find it. 

Thanos: [Leans down to put their heads at a level, whispering fiercely] But because you did. [Looks at her] And you lied.

[Thanos and Gamora stand outside a large solid door that slides open vertically as they approach, then pause as a set of inner doors made of interlacing metal slide away. Inside, we see Nebula face-on, suspended horizontally in the air in the middle of the room, her breath shuddering in pain.]

Gamora: Nebula.

[Gamora hurries to to Nebula's left side, and we now see that she has been partially disassembled, her components stretched apart -- a cybernetic version of the medieval torture rack. Hannibal Lecter level of brutality.]

Gamora: Don't do this.

Thanos: Some time ago, your sister snuck aboard this ship to kill me.

Gamora: Please don't do this.

Thanos: And very nearly succeeded. So I brought her here. To talk.

[Thanos curls his gauntleted fist, activating both the Power and Space Stones, scowling -- causing Nebula's already extended pieces to stretch further outward. She begins to scream.]

Gamora: Stop. Stop it. [She puts her hands on the gauntlet, pulling it down] I swear to you on my life. I never found the Soul Stone.

[Thanos signals a nearby servant who taps on a control pad. We hear Nebula's voice say, "Accessing memory files" and a sort of hologram of Gamora's face shudders to life.]

Memory Nebula: You know what he's about to do. He's finally ready, and he's going for the stones. All of them.

Memory Gamora: He can never get them all.

Memory Nebula: He will!

Memory Gamora: He can't, Nebula. Because I found the map to the Soul Stone and I burnt it to ash. I burnt it.

[The memory ends.]

Thanos: [To Gamora, walking around behind her] You're strong. Me. You're generous. Me. But I never taught you to lie. That's why you're so bad at it. [His voice drips with disgust] Where is the Soul Stone? [He raises his gauntlet next to Gamora's face. Nebula shakes her head, expression terrified, to encourage her sister's silence but when Gamora does not answer, Thanos clenches the gauntlet again, brow furrowed at his adopted daughter as the Power and Space Stones are reactivated. Gamora grimaces in shared pain at her sister's screams, growing louder as Thanos increases the pressure.]

Gamora: VORMIR! [Thanos unclenches his hand, and Nebula gasps in air as her parts snap back almost into place. Gamora goes to her and caresses her face.] The Stone is on Vormir.

Thanos: [Satisfied.] Show me.

[Cut to the pod taking Thor, Rocket and Groot to Nidavellir.]

Groot: [Irritably] I am Groot. (Translation: I need to tinkle.)

Rocket: Tinkle in the cup. We're not looking. What's there to see? What's a twig? Everybody's seen a twig.

Groot: [Still irritably] I am Groot. (Translation: But the cup is full.)

Thor: [While looking out the rear portholes] Tree, pour what's in the cup out in space, and go in the cup again.

Rocket: You speak Groot?

Thor: Yes, they taught it on Asgard. It was an elective.

Groot: [Shortly] I am Groot. (Translation: How long 'till we get there?)

Thor: You'll know when we're there. Nivadellir's forge harnesses the power of a blazing neutron star. [Nostalgically] It's the birth place of my hammer. It's truly awesome.

[Rocket turns to see Thor sitting sadly beside the window, and sighs.]

Rocket: [To himself] Okay, time to be the captain. [Walks to a console near by Thor, presses two buttons] So, dead brother, huh? Yeah, that can be annoying.

Thor: Well, he's been dead before, but this time I think it really might be true.

Rocket: And you said your sister and your dad?

Thor: Both dead.

Rocket: Still got a mom, though?

Thor: Killed by a dark elf.

Rocket: A best friend?

Thor: Stabbed through the heart.

Rocket: Are you sure you're up to this particular murder mission?

Thor: [Smiling widely but also trying to convince himself] Absolutely. Rage, vengeance, anger, loss, regret... they're all tremendous motivators. They really clear the mind. So I'm good to go.

Rocket: Yeah, but this Thanos we're talking about...he's the toughest there is.

Thor: Well, he's never fought me.

Rocket: Yeah, he has!

Thor: He's never fought me twice. And I'm getting a new hammer, don't forget.

Rocket: Better be some hammer.

Thor: You know, I'm 1,500 years old. I've killed twice as many enemies as that, and every one would have rather killed me, but none succeeded. I'm only alive because fate wants me alive. Thanos is the latest in a long line of bastards and he will be the latest to feel my vengeance. Fate wills it so.

Rocket: And what if you're wrong?

Thor: If I'm wrong then...what more could I lose?

[Thor sniffs and hastily wipes below his eye. He stands and seats himself at the front of the pod, beside Groot.]

Rocket: [Under his breath] I could lose a lot. Me personally. I could lose a lot. [Rocket takes an eyeball from somewhere on his person] Okay. If fate does want you to kill that crapsack... you're gonna need more than one stupid eyeball. [He gives Thor the eyeball.]

Thor: What's this?

Rocket: What's it look like? Some jerk lost a bet with me on on Contraxia.

Thor: He gave you his eye?

Rocket: He gave me 100 credits. I snuck in later that night and stole his eye.

Thor: Thank you, sweet rabbit.

[Thor proceeds to put the eyeball in his socket. We are thankfully spared the explicit insertion.]

Rocket: Hmm. Huh? Oh. I would've washed that. The only way I could sneak it off Contraxia was up my...[beeping] Hey, we're here!

Thor: [Smacking his palm against the side of his head to get the eye calibrated] I don't think this thing works. Everything seems dark.

Rocket: It ain't the eye.

[Nidavellir is dark and motionless as the three rings around it.]

Thor: Something's wrong. The star's gone out. And the rings are frozen.

[The pod flies through massive machinery, cold and inert. Screen title: NIDAVELLIR]

[The pod sets down; Thor, Rocket and Groot disembark and start walking through a seemingly abandoned and cluttered space. Groot is still playing his game.]

Rocket: I hope these dwarves are better at forging than they are cleaning. Maybe they realized they live in a junk pile in the middle of space.

Thor: This forge hasn't gone dark in centuries....

Rocket: [Pauses, looking at a pedestal] You said Thanos had a gauntlet, right?

Thor: Yes. Why?

Rocket: Look anything like that? [In fact, it looks exactly like that]

Groot: [Uneasily] I am Groot.

Thor: [Urgently] Go back to the pod.

[Suddenly a massive figure storms towards them, flinging Thor away with one swing of his arm, and kicking Rocket and Groot against a wall of equipment.]

Thor: Eitri, wait! Stop!

Eitri: Thor?

[Eitri is played by the legendary Peter Dinklage -- his giant size literally juxtaposing his name of dwarf.]

Thor: What happened here?

Eitri: You were supposed to protect us. Asgard was supposed to protect us!

Thor: Asgard is destroyed. [Thor scrambles to his feet and points. Eitri stop his attack on Thor. He now believes Thanos had destroyed Asgard and leaving him in a similar survivor role like Eitri himself.] Eitri, the glove. What did you do?

Eitri: [He walks brokenly across the space to sit heavily, leaning against an ore skip. Rocket and Groot get to their feet, the sapling checking his game.] 300 dwarves lived on this ring. I thought if I did what he asked, they'd be safe. I made what he wanted. A device capable of harnessing the power of the stones. Then he killed everyone anyway. All except me. 'Your life is yours,' he said. 'But your hands are mine alone.' [He holds up his immobile metal fists, encased in hardened molten metal.]

Thor: Eitri, this isn't about your hands. Every weapon you've ever designed: every ax, hammer, sword - it's all inside your head. 

Thor: Now I know it feels like all hope is lost. Trust me, I know. But together, you and I, we can kill Thanos.

[Cut to Nebula suspended in the interrogation room seen earlier, while a technician puts her back together. Nebula ejects her eyepiece and snaps the neck of the tech when he comes close enough to replace it. She walks to a console, straightening her left arm, dragging her still-dislocated right foot behind her, and inputs a code.]

Nebula: Mantis, listen very carefully. I need you to meet me on Titan.

[Cut to Peter Parker, Tony Stark, and Dr. Strange aboard the ship approaching the surface of Titan.]

Peter Parker: [To Tony] Hey, what's going on?

Stephen Strange: I think we're here.

Tony Stark: I don't think this rig has a self-park function. [Urgently] Get your hand into this steering gimbal. Close those around it. You understand?

Peter Parker: Yep, got it.

Tony Stark: This was meant for one big guy, so we gotta to move at the same time.

Peter Parker: Okay. Okay. Ready.

[The ringship is heading straight for the center of what looks like one of a colossal game of jacks.]

Peter Parker: We might wanna turn. Turn! Turn! Turn!!

[Iron Man armors up as the ringship clips the "jack" obliquely, but still losing a good third of its hull in the collision. Spider-Man throws up his helmet at the same time. Doctor Strange steps between them and creates the Shield of the Seraphim around them all, anticipating a rough landing.]

[The ship, now reduced to about 45%, plows through the dirt and stops, leaning slightly to one side. Screen title: TITAN.]

[Doctor Strange helps Tony, now de-helmeted, to his feet; they're both panting a little from the exertion of arrival.]

Tony Stark: [To Doctor Strange] You alright? [Panting] That was close. I owe you one.

[Spider-Man descends from above in classically spider-like fashion.]

Peter Parker: Let me just say, if aliens wind up implanting eggs in my chest or something, and I eat one of you, I'm sorry.

Tony Stark: [While pointing at Peter] I don't wanna hear another single pop culture out of you for the rest of the trip. You understand?

Peter Parker: I'm trying to say that...something is coming.

[A grenade rolls into view, and Peter, Strange and Tony get thrown well back when it fires its energy pulse. Star-Lord, Drax, and Mantis appear in the doorway]

Drax: [Yelling] THANOS!!!! [He flings a blade at Doctor Strange, who neatly deflects it with a mystical shield, and in return sends the Cloak of Levitation at Drax's face, half-smothering him and throwing him to the floor. Star-Lord and Iron Man have a brief dogfight until a magnetic disc pins Iron Man face-first to a structure.]

Peter Parker: [Crawling backwards frantically from an anxious-looking Mantis] AH! WHOAWHOAWHOAWHOAWHOA! PLEASE DON'T PUT YOUR EGGS IN ME!

[Spider-Man shoots web at Mantis in a panic, pinning arms to her body just before Star-Lord flies at him feet-first, kicking him away.]

Peter Quill: Stay down, clown!

[Star-Lord can't quite counter spider reflexes at first; he fires at Spider-Man, who extends his spider legs and leaps away, but an electric-like cord wraps around Spider-Man and his six new legs when he tries to attack, sending him rolling across the deck.]

Drax: [Struggling with the Cloak of Levitation] Die, blanket of death!

[Iron Man pulls free of the magnet; the Cloak pulls free of Drax as soon as Iron Man has a bead on his opponent and a foot on his torso.]

[Star-Lord has Spider-Man in a head-lock, gun pointed at the smaller man's head.]

[Doctor Strange has a mystical shield of golden energy up, and stands ready at the third point of the triangle. Mantis has struggled to her feet behind Star-Lord, still covered with webbing.]

Peter Quill: Everybody, stay where you are, chill the F out!

[Star-Lord powers off his helmet and aims at Tony.]

Peter Quill: I'm gonna ask you this one time. Where's Gamora?

Tony Stark: [De-helmeting] Yeah, I'll do you one better. Who's Gamora?

Drax: I'll do you one better. Why is Gamora?

Peter Quill: Tell me where the girl is, or I swear to you, I'm gonna French-fry this little freak.

Tony Stark: Let's do it! You shoot my guy, I blast him. Let's go! [Tony extends his nano-tech cannon, looking uncannily like an electric shark about to eat Drax's face.]

Drax: Do it, Quill! I can take it.

Mantis: No, he can't take it!

Stephen Strange: [Completely deadpan] She's right. You can't.

Peter Quill: Oh yeah? You don't wanna tell me where she is? That's fine, I'll kill all three of you and beat it out of Thanos myself! [To Spider-Man] Starting with you!

Stephen Strange: Wait, what. Thanos? [Trying to inject clarity and sanity into the situation] Alright, let me ask you this one time: What master do you serve?

Peter Quill: What master do I serve? What am I supposed to say? "Jesus"?

Tony Stark: [Getting it] You're from Earth?

Peter Quill: I'm not from Earth. I'm from Missouri.

Tony Stark: Yeah, that's on Earth, dip-shit; What are you hassling us for?

Peter Parker: [Sounding slightly crushed] So, you're not with Thanos?

Peter Quill: [Indignantly] With Thanos?! 

Peter Quill: No! I'm here to kill Thanos. He took my girl- Wai- who are you?

Peter Parker: [De-helmets] We're the Avengers, man.

Peter Quill: Oh.

Mantis: You're the ones Thor told us about!

Tony Stark: You know Thor!?

Peter Quill: Yeah. Tall guy, not that good-looking, [Peter gives him an incredulous look] needed saving.

Doctor Strange: [Pause] Where is he now?

[Cut to Nivadellir where Eitri is showing Thor, Rocket, and Groot the mold for Stormbreaker.]

Rocket: This is the plan? We're gonna hit him with a brick?

Eitri: It's a mold. A king's weapon. Meant to be the greatest in Asgard. In theory, it could even summon the Bifrost.

Thor: Did it have a name?

Eitri: Stormbreaker.

Rocket: That's a bit much.

Thor: So how do we make it?

Eitri: You'll have to restart the forge. Awaken the heart of a dying star.

Thor: Rabbit, fire up the pod.

[Cut to Titan where the remaining Avengers and the Guardians are starting to work together. Quill is measuring the planet's tilt.]

Peter Quill: The heck happened to this planet? It's eight degrees off its axis. Gravitational pull is all over the place.

[in the background, Mantis is jumping joyfully in a low gravity spot.]

Tony Stark: Yeah, we got one advantage. He's coming to us. We'll use it. All right, I have a plan. Or at least the beginnings of one. It's pretty simple. We draw him in, pin him down, get what we need. Definitely don't wanna dance with this guy. We just want the gauntlet.

[Drax yawns.]

Tony Stark: Are you yawning? In the middle of this, while I'm breaking it down? Huh? Did you hear what I said?

Drax: I stopped listening after you said, "We need a plan."

Tony Stark: [To Quill] Okay, Mr. Clean is on his own page.

Peter Quill: See, "not winging it" isn't really what they do.

Peter Parker: Uh, what exactly is it that they do?

Mantis: [As fiercely as an 8-week-old kitten] Kick names, take ass.

Drax: Yeah, that's right. [Agrees quietly as he settles into a stance facing the remaining Avengers.]

Tony Stark: [Tony pauses with an expression of deep hopelessness] Alright, just get over here, please. Mr. Lord, can you get your folks to circle up?

Peter Quill: "Mr. Lord." Star-Lord is fine. [Motions to Drax and Mantis,]

Tony Stark: We gotta coalesce. 'Cause if all we come at him with is a plucky attitude....

Peter Quill: Dude, don't call us plucky. We don't know what it means. Alright, we're optimistic, yes. I like your plan. Except it sucks, so let me do the plan, and that way it might be really good. [Peter Parker follows the conversation back and forth like a squash rally.]

Drax: Tell him about the dance-off to save the universe.

Tony Stark: What dance-off?

Peter Quill: It's not a... it's not... it's nothing.

Peter Parker: Like in Footloose, the movie?

Peter Quill: [Excitedly] Exactly like Footloose. Is it still the greatest movie in history?

Peter Parker: It never was.

[Quill frowns sadly at him.]

Tony Stark: Don't encourage this, alright?

Peter Parker: Okay.

Tony Stark: We're getting no help from Flash Gordon here.

Peter Quill: Flash Gordon? By the way, that's a compliment. Don't forget, I'm half human. [Quill points at Stark and Parker] So that 50% of me that's stupid? That's 100% you.

Tony Stark: Your math is blowing my mind.

Mantis: Excuse me, but... does your friend often do that?

[Dr. Strange is sitting cross-legged, floating slightly above the ground, his hands poised in a mystic gesture with the Time Stone glowing brightly in the Eye of Agamotto setting. Green vapor-like energy flows from the stone, and more intricate magical energy patterns circle Dr. Strange's forearms. The Cloak of Levitation flows behind him as if the Stone is creating a strong breeze. His eyes are closed, and his head is jerking rapidly from side to side, the motion blurring, but resembling looking for something.]

Tony Stark: Strange, we alright?

[Dr. Strange snaps out of his trance and falls forward, letting out a cry.]

Tony Stark: You're back. You're alright.

Peter Parker: Hey, what was that?

Stephen Strange: [Panting] I went forward in time to view alternate futures. To see all the possible outcomes of the coming conflict.

Peter Quill: How many did you see?

Stephen Strange: 14,000,605.

Tony Stark: How many did we win?

[Dr. Strange stares intently at Tony for a moment.]

Stephen Strange: [Pause] One.

[Cut to Thanos and Gamora appearing on sand dunes alternating with shallow pools around the base of a mountain. The sun is in full eclipse, lending eerie lighting to the scene. Screen title: VORMIR]

Thanos: The stone had better be up there...for your sister's sake.

[The walk up the mountain seems to be long, but not difficult. Paths worn by centuries or more of feet lead up to the summit, where Thanos and Gamora encounter a floating hooded figure].

Stonekeeper: Welcome, Thanos, son of A'lars. Gamora, daughter of Thanos.

Thanos: You know us?

Stonekeeper: It is my curse to know all who journey here.

Thanos: Where's the Soul Stone?

Stonekeeper: You should know...it extracts a terrible price.

Thanos: I am prepared.

Stonekeeper: We all think that at first. [The figure touches down and glides out of the shadows, revealing the face of who we know to be Johann "The Red Skull" Schmidt from Captain America: The First Avenger.] We are all wrong.

[The Stonekeeper guides them to a temple-like structure at the summit.]

Thanos: How is it you know this place so well?

Red Skull: A lifetime ago, I, too, sought the stones. I even held one in my hand. But it cast me out, banished me here. Guiding others to a treasure I cannot possess.

[They stop on a semicircular engraving overlooking a sheer drop. It descends in three shallow steps to a final half-circle cutout, the whole bisected by a deep cut that runs between the two spires behind them. Far, far below is a full circle with similar engraved decoration.]

Red Skull: What you seek lies before you. As does what you fear.

Thanos: What's this?

Red Skull: The price. Soul hold a special place among the Infinity Stones. You might say it has a certain wisdom.

Thanos: Tell me what it needs.

Red Skull: To ensure that whoever possesses it...understands its power....The stone demands a sacrifice.

Thanos: Of what?

Red Skull: In order to take the stone, you must lose that which you love. A soul, for a soul.

[Gamora begins to laugh at the irony of the situation.]

Gamora: All my life, I dreamed of a day... a moment when you would get what you deserved. And I was always so disappointed. 

Gamora: But now...you kill and torture...and you call it mercy. 

Gamora: The universe has judged you. You asked it for a prize, and it told you no. You failed. 

Gamora: And do you wanna know why? Because you love nothing. No one.

Thanos: [Turns to face Gamora with tears in his eyes.]

Gamora: Really? Tears?

Red Skull: They're not for him.

[Gamora looks at the Red Skull, and as her bitter smile fades, realizes what is about to happen, as do we....]

Gamora: No...This isn't love!

Thanos: [Thoroughly convicted.] I ignored my destiny once. 

Thanos: I cannot do that again...even...for you. 

[Gamora stares down unseeing for a moment, then up at the resolution on his face.]

[She grabs the red-jeweled dagger from his belt with lightning reflexes, triggers the blades and stabs herself in the stomach...except it's only bubbles.]

Thanos: I'm sorry, little one. 

[He grabs Gamora by the arm and walks inexorably to the precipice.]

Gamora: NO!

[She tries in vain to break from his grasp, much like she tried to pull free from the Child of Thanos so many years ago, but, pain showing clearly on his face, he throws her over the edge, and watches sorrowfully as she falls to her death. Light pulses overhead as the sacrifice is correctly accomplished.]

[Thanos finds himself lying in one of the shallow pools back at the base of the mountain. He opens his hand and sees that he now has the orange Soul Stone.]

[Cut to the Quinjet where Sam is piloting Rhodey, Steve, Natasha, Wanda, and Vision.]

Steve Rogers: [Walking up to the pilot's seat] Drop to 2600, heading 0-3-0.

Sam Wilson: I hope you're right about this, Cap. Or we're gonna land a lot faster than you want to.

[The Quinjet passes through a camouflage force field into Wakanda's Golden City's valley and lands at the airfield outside the palace. King T'Challa and the Dora Milaje approach to greet the arrivals]

Okoye: [Walking with King T'Challa and a band of the Kingsguard to the landing pad] When you said we were going to open Wakanda to the rest of the world... this is not what I imagined.

T'Challa: And what did you imagine?

Okoye: The Olympics. Maybe even a Starbucks.

[The occupants of the Quinjet disembark, Steve and Natasha leading, followed by Bruce and Rhodey, with Vision and Wanda slowly taking up the rear.]

Bruce Banner: [To Rhodey] Should we bow?

James Rhodes: [Seriously] Yeah, he's a king.

Steve Rogers: Seems like I'm always thanking you for something. [Shaking hands with King T'Challa.]

[Bruce bows awkwardly to King T'Challa.]

James Rhodes: [Mock shocked] What are you doing?

T'Challa: Uh, we don't do that here. [He dissuades Bruce with a motion of his hand; Bruce shoots Rhodey a look, and is answered with a big grin] So how big of an assault can we expect?

[The group begins to walk back into the administrative building.]

Bruce Banner: Uh, sir, I think you can expect quite a big assault.

Natasha Romanoff: How we looking?

King T'Challa: You will have my Kingsguard, the Border Tribe, the Dora Milaje, and...

Bucky Barnes: [Smiling as he walks toward Steve, passing some Kingsguard taking Vision and Wanda to another facility] A semi-stable, 100-year-old man.

[The two friends share a hug.]

Steve Rogers: How you been, Buck?

Bucky Barnes: Uh, not bad, for the end of the world.

[In Shuri's lab, Shuri scans the Stone with her kimoyo beads while Vision lies on the examination table. She flips her hand over and studies the hologram projected over her palm.]

Shuri: Whoa. The structure is polymorphic.

Bruce Banner: Right, we had to attach each neuron non-sequentially.

Shuri: Why didn't you just reprogram the synapses to work collectively?

[Vision looks at Bruce as if to ask the same thing.]

Bruce Banner: [Uncertainly] Because, we didn't think of it.

Shuri: [Reassuringly, with a smile] I'm sure you did your best.

Wanda Maximoff: Can you do it?

Shuri: Yes, but there are more than two trillion neurons here. One misalignment could cause a cascade of circuit failures. [To King T'Challa] It will take time, brother.

Steve Rogers: How long?

Shuri: As long as you can give me.

Okoye: [Her kimoyo beads chime an alarm; she flicks one bead into her palm, where it projects the globe with a pulsing location marker] Something's entered the atmosphere.

[Outside, Sam and Bucky look up at the sky]

Sam Wilson: [Over the Avengers' comm] Hey, Cap, we got a situation here.

[The defense shield over the Golden City destroys one of the alien vessels when it slams into the field at full attack acceleration.]

Bucky Barnes: God, I love this place.

James Rhodes: [also outside, and now in full War Machine armor watching three more ships burn through the sky] Yeah, don't start celebrating yet, guys. We got more incoming outside the dome.

[The shock waves and debris from the ship landings destroy acres of forest and boil up against the dome. The lab has an excellent view of the landing sites. Captain America and Black Panther look at each other in concern over the scope of what they'll be facing.]

Vision: [Struggling to sit up and slide off the exam table] It's too late. We need to destroy the stone now.

Natasha Romanoff: [Moving toward Vision] Vision, get your ass back on the table.

T'Challa: We will hold them off. [He, Okoye and the guards head for the door.]

Steve Rogers: [To Wanda] Wanda, as soon as the stone's out of his head... you blow it to hell.

Wanda Maximoff: I will.

T'Challa: Evacuate the city. Engage all defense procedures. [He stops, turns, and points at Steve] And get this man a shield.

[Cut to Nivadellir where Rocket is in the pod, and Thor, without any environmental suit, jumps from the hull onto the ring surface with a cable in his hand attached to the pod.]

Rocket: I don't think you get the scientifics here. These rings are gigantic. You wanna get them moving, you're gonna need something a lot bigger to yank 'em loose.

Thor: Leave that to me.

Rocket: Leave that to you? Buddy, you're in space. All you got is a rope and a--

Thor: [Thor begins to swing the pod around him in a circle. Rocket screams. Thor builds up speed with three good loops then slacks his grip enough to send the pod shooting straight away from Nidavellir, trailing him behind it like a kite tail.] Fire the engines!

Rocket: [Rocket shakes it off and puts the proverbial pedal to the metal.] Nnnyah!

Thor: [As the pod skims over the surface of the next ring out, Thor reaches down and digs one hand into the surface, then both feet, finally getting a foothold against the forward motion of the pod. The ice-like accumulation around the ring axis crackles.] MORE... POWER... RABBIT!

[Thor commits bicep porn while Rocket accelerates for all he's worth. Finally the rings spin free, realigning into effective configuration as the star bursts back into life.]

Eitri: Well done, boy.

[Thor, clutching the pod's forward windows, points to the star.]

Thor: That's Nivadellir!

[Rocket gazes amazed at the blazing core. An iris on the cladding around the star opens, firing pure stellar heat through the ring portals and into the forge... until the damaged mechanism fails, crumbles loose and slams shut. The iris closes and the beam of light trails off.]

Eitri: Damn it.

Rocket: "Damn it"? What's "damn it"?

Eitri: The mechanism is crippled.

Thor: What?

Eitri: With the iris closed I can't heat the metal.

Thor: How long will it take to heat?

Eitri: A few minutes, maybe more. Why?

Thor: [Standing up on the pod hull] I'm gonna hold it open.

Eitri: That's suicide.

Thor: So is facing Thanos without that ax. [He leaps from the pod to the star's iris.]

[Cut to the Wakandan battlefield. Carriers hover over the ground with Wakandan soldiers and Natasha, Steve and Bucky on board; Rhodey and Sam keep pace overhead, and Bruce is in the Hulkbuster armor.]

Natasha Romanoff: How we looking, Bruce?

Bruce Banner: [Leaping jogging along, keeping up with the carriers, and utterly delighted] Yeah, I think I'm getting the hang of it. Wow! It's like being the Hulk without actually-- [he stumbles on a rock, and a carrier goes by, from which Okoye gives him a dubious look. He stands] I'm okay. I'm okay.

James Rhodes: I got two heat signatures breaking through the tree line.

[The heat signatures are Proxima Midnight and Cull Obsidian.]

[The carrier pilots swerve into U-turns, causing their craft to tilt and allowing the practiced soldiers to slide over one side into a run, never coming to a complete halt. A Dora Milaje shouts a command nearby as the last Wakandans join ranks.]

Jabari Warriors: MIE EFFA! (Win them!) YA HU! MIE EFFA! YA HU! MIE EFFA! YA HU! MIE EFFA! YA HU! MIE EFFA! YA HU! [M'Baku, Lord of the Jabari, rallies his soldiers with a war chant. He stops as King T'Challa nears him.]

T'Challa: [Clasps wrists with M'Baku] Thank you for standing with us.

M'Baku: [Translated from Xhosa] Of course, brother.

[The Black Panther, Captain America, and Black Widow walk to the edge of the barrier, where Proxima Midnight and Cull Obsidian stand. Proxima tests the strength of the barrier by drawing her sword across it consideringly.]

Natasha Romanoff: Where's your other friend?

Proxima Midnight: You will pay for his life with yours. Thanos will have that stone.

Steve Rogers: That's not gonna happen.

T'Challa: You are in Wakanda now. Thanos will have nothing but dust and blood.

Proxima Midnight: We... have blood to spare. [She brandishes her sword with a snarl, and the ships behind her start raising their outer hulls to allow their "passengers" to disembark.]

[The three heroes return to the massed forces.]

Bucky Barnes: [A touch sardonically] Did they surrender?

Steve Rogers: Not exactly.

[The Black Panther leads the Wakandans in the war cry "Yibambe!" telling them to hold fast as the Outriders bound toward the barrier; Proxima drops her sword arm down in the signal to attack.]

Bucky Barnes: [Flatly, astonished at the numbers of Outriders] What the hell.

Natasha Romanoff: Looks like we pissed her off.

Okoye: [Horrified, as the Outriders bombard the force-field, squeezing limbs and bodies partly through only to be bisected.] They're killing themselves.

[As a few Outriders managed to squeeze through intact, the Border Tribe take a knee and raise their shields. The Kingsguard behind them level their sonic spears over their comrades' shoulders, and on Black Panther's command, fire at the approaching monsters. The Winter Soldier uses his M-249 machine gun, and Bruce fires the Hulkbuster's hand repulsors.]

Sam Wilson: [Sending Redwings into the fight as he flies, swooping to fire at them with his Steyr pistols] You seen the teeth on those things?

James Rhodes: Alright, back up, Sam. You're gonna get your wings singed. [He flies over the heaviest concentration of Outriders and drops a barrage of mines, all exploding fantastically.]

[Everyone notices a pack of Outriders starting to run around the force-field to the right of the defenders' position.]

Bruce Banner: Cap, if these things circle the perimeter and get in behind us... there's nothing between them and Vision.

Steve Rogers: [Grimly] Them we better keep 'em in front of us.

Okoye: [To the Black Panther] How do we do that?

T'Challa: We open the barrier. [Putting his comm to his mouth] On my signal, open North-West Section Seventeen.

Dome Control: [Nervous and unsure] Requesting confirmation, my King. You said open the barrier?

T'Challa: On my signal.

M'Baku: [To Okoye] This will be the end of Wakanda.

Okoye: Then it will be the noblest ending in history.

[Captain America readies one of his Vibranium hand guards. The Black Panther shouts a command in Xhosa; the Border Tribesmen disengage their shields and stand, as the Black Panther walks out in front of them, never taking his eyes off the enemy.]

T'Challa: WAKANDA FOREVER!!!!

[He crosses his arms in the Wakandan salute and closes his Black Panther helmet, charging for the barrier. The heroes and leaders are at the fore of the charge. Halfway to the barrier, the Black Panther shouts into his comm]

T'Challa: Now!

[The Outriders pour through, distracted from trying to find any other access. The Black Panther and Captain America pull ahead rapidly due to their enhancements, and literally leap into battle.]

T'Challa: [Over his comm] How much longer, Shuri?

Shuri: We've barely begun, brother. [A delicate and intricate construction of gold light hovers at her eye level; as she manipulates it, the waldo tools reproduce her commands on the Mind Stone itself.]

T'Challa: You might want to pick up the pace.

[Simultaneously, Thor prepares to open the iris of Nidavellir.]

Thor: Allfathers, give me strength.

Eitri: You understand, boy? You're about to take the full force of a star. It'll kill you.

Thor: Only if I die. [He takes deep breaths.]

Eitri: [Boggled] Yes. That's what... "killing you" means.

[Thor grasps the two levers and pulls them down and towards himself, slowly opening the iris. The stream of stellar energy blasts past him and into the forge once again.]

Eitri: Hold it! Hold it, Thor!

[Eitri watches the metal ingots melt while Thor is looking increasingly charred. Finally, Eitri is able to tip the cauldron, pouring the metal into the mold just as Thor passes out. The jet carries him into the forge, Rocket follows hastily and landing after Thor bounces limply off a structure to land on the floor. Groot finally looks up from his game at the thump Thor's body makes.]

Rocket: [Kneeling over Thor] Thor! Say something. Come on. Thor, you okay? [Thor looks far from "okay".]

[Eitri clumsily and urgently pulls the mold, still glowing red-hot, onto the floor, breaking it loose from its frame, then starts punching the mold itself with his metal fists to free the ax.]

Rocket: I think he's dying!

Eitri: He needs the ax! 

[Stormbreaker's two sections -- the hammer and the ax-blade -- lay glowing on the floor. Groot looks sadly at Thor for a moment.]

Eitri: Where's the handle? 

Eitri: Tree, help me find the handle!

[And with a boost of determination, he stands up and and extends his fingers towards the Stormbreaker, growing them at extraordinary speed. As he twines them around the two parts, he cries out at the burning pain but does not hesitate, slamming them together and locking them permanently into one structure. He raises it above his head, and with a mighty cry, chops his extended arm with his other hand to sever it at the right length.]

[Thor's fingers twitch, and the new weapon levitates in a crackle of lightning echoed by the sparks between Thor's fingers.]

[The remaining Avengers and Wakandans are struggling against the Outriders. The Winter Soldier goes down, and fights off Outrider fangs snapping at his head. Captain America and the Black Panther still fight side-by-side. War Machine hovers over the breach, pouring ammunition into the flood of bodies until a huge hammer -- Cull Obsidian's -- knocks him out of the sky and to the ground. The Hulkbuster is dogpiled and pinned.]

Bruce Banner: There’s too many of them! GYAH! AAAAHHHHH!

[Suddenly, a large beam of rainbow-hued light lands in the middle of the action, and an ax flies out of it, wreathed with lightning and tearing through the Outriders, freeing the heroes. It flies back to the light and into its master's hand just as the beam cuts out, revealing Thor, Groot and Rocket [The Avengers theme swelling triumphantly at their arrival] who chambers a round in his large gun. Black Widow, Captain America and the Black Panther pause in astonishment. Proxima Midnight and Cull Obsidian pause in apprehension.]

Bruce Banner: [Opening the Hulkbuster's helm and laughing with joy] AH-hahaha! You guys are so screwed now!

Thor: BRING ME THANOS! [He charges toward the hordes of Outriders, followed by Groot and Rocket, lightning gathering around him until he finally launches himself into the air, lands in the densest concentration of Outriders and makes a crater where they had stood.]

[Cut to Titan, where Thanos arrives, finding only fresh debris from Ebony Maw's ship.]

Stephen Strange: [Sitting on what may have been plaza steps once] Oh, yeah...you're much more of a "Thanos."

Thanos: I take it, the Maw is dead. This day extracts a heavy toll. Still, he accomplished his mission.

Stephen Strange: You may regret that. He brought you face-to-face with the Master of the Mystic Arts.

Thanos: And where do you think he brought you? [Star-Lord crouches behind wreckage with his weapon ready, behind Thanos and to his left; Spider-Man peeks from above and behind Doctor Strange.]

Stephen Strange: Let me guess. Your home?

Thanos: [Smiling reminiscently] It was. And it was beautiful. [Thanos curls his gauntleted fist and activates the Reality Stone to show Strange Titan before it was destroyed -- green lawns, intact buildings, water-filled ponds, strolling citizens, the jack-like structures hovering and connected to the ground-based buildings with beams of energy.] Titan was like most planets. Too many mouths, and not enough to go around. And when we faced extinction, I offered a solution.

Stephen Strange: Genocide.

Thanos: But at random, dispassionate, fair to rich and poor alike. They called me a madman. And what I predicted came to pass. [He relaxes his fist; the Stone stops glowing and the illusion fades back into the true state of Titan.]

Stephen Strange: [Sarcastically] Congratulations. You're a prophet.

Thanos: I'm a survivor.

Stephen Strange: Who wants to murder trillions.

Thanos: With all six stones, I could simply snap my fingers, and they would all cease to exist; I call that... mercy.

Stephen Strange: [Stands] And then what?

Thanos: I finally rest...and watch the sun rise on a grateful universe. 

Thanos: The hardest choices require the strongest wills.

Stephen Strange: [He summons his Mandalas, entering a fighting pose] I think you'll find our will...equal...to yours.

Thanos: Ours? [He looks up to a see a chunk of wreckage descending rapidly on him, too rapidly to react -- and powered by Iron Man. He is subsequently crushed by it.]

Tony Stark: [Flying in] Piece of cake, Quill.

Peter Quill: [Triggers his mask and follows] Yeah, if your goal was to piss him off!

[The wreckage on top of Thanos erupts in purple, as he bellows in rage. He turns the hovering fragments into a flock of bats with the Reality Stone and swarms Iron Man with them, driving him back through the ruins.]

[Spider-Man webs his eyes, and swings in to kick him in the face at the same time that Drax leaps from cover, blades in both hands, to knee-slide behind Thanos and try for a tendon slide across the back of the Titan's knee.]

[Doctor Strange jumps through a portal and summons a sword of golden energy, dueling with Thanos while Drax attacks similarly on his other side. Thanos punches Drax through a ruined wall, then shatters the blade with one hand and tears the web from his eyes. He advances on Doctor Strange and kicks at him, but Strange's shield absorbs the damage -- the Cloak lifts him free of the ground.]

[Star-Lord has been making his way back on the ground, and shoots Thanos from behind. Thanos uses the Power Stone to shoot balls of energy at Star-Lord while Star-Lord leaps towards Thanos using magical platforms thrown in his path by Doctor Strange, the last one placed above Thanos' head so Star-Lord can flip over him and slap a mine on Thanos' back. Star-Lord sticks his landing, he disengages his helmet, flips Thanos a bird and falls backward into a portal.]

Peter Quill: Boom!

[The explosion knocks Thanos to his knees and dazes him briefly.]

Stephen Strange: [Whispers to the Cloak of Levitation] Do not let him close his fist. [The Cloak swoops off Doctor Strange's shoulders and wraps itself tightly around Thanos' armored hand, who starts tugging at this unexpected wrapping.]

[Doctor Strange starts throwing portals everywhere. Spider-Man leaps through one on Thanos' left]

Peter Parker: Magic! [He punches Thanos in the head and vanishes through a portal to the lower right before reappearing above Thanos] More magic! [He yanks Thanos' head down hard, then leaps into a portal in front of him. He leaps through another portal high and behind Thanos] Magic with a kick! [Delivers a flying kick and falls feet-first into an exit, then appears on his right] Magic with a--

[Before he can finish Thanos turns, grabbing him from the air, and throwing him to the ground, with his hand around his neck.]

Thanos: Insect!

[He then throws him at Doctor Strange, knocking them both down. Thanos finally tears the Cloak away and is then promptly surrounded by fiery explosions as Iron Man bombards him. He sucks all the flame into the gauntlet with the Power Stone and fires it in a stream at Iron Man, hitting him dead on and sending him far away, plowing through a massive fallen machine.]

[Spider-Man leaps from behind, more conventionally this time, while Thanos concentrates his fire on Iron Man, webs the gauntlet and drops down in front of him, pulling hard -- but Thanos yanks on the web-line, pulling the much lighter teenager towards him, and punching him on his way past. He tears the webbing free of the gauntlet just in time for a small spaceship to attempt to crash-land on him.]

[The ship drags Thanos along for a distance, burying him under debris. He stands just as the pilot leaps in a great arc to punch him, landing in front of him with an energy-blade at the ready.]

Thanos: Well, well.

Nebula: You should have killed me.

Thanos: It would've been a waste of parts!

Nebula: [She runs at Thanos, attacking him with her sword] Where's Gamora?!

[Thanos punches her away. Doctor Strange uses the Crimson Bands of Cyttorak to pinion the gauntlet, pulling Thanos' fingers open and trying to pry the gauntlet off his hand.]

[Thanos tries to pull free, as Drax slides in from his right, kicking his knee and knocking him off-balance, then wrapping himself around Thanos' kneeling leg.]

[Star-Lord shoots a electric trap onto the ground to Thanos' right, the tangle-field holding down his unarmored hand.]

[Spider-Man swings in, webs Thanos' chest then wraps it around behind him, digging his Iron Spider legs into the ground to anchor himself.]

[Doctor Strange opens a portal straight above Thanos' out of which drops Mantis, landing on the Titan's shoulders, her hands on his temples. He bellows as she tries to put him under.]

[Iron Man, having returned, is pulling on the gauntlet. Doctor Strange reapplies the Crimson Bands of Cyttorak to reinforce the trap's hold on Thanos' right hand, and the Cloak helps him pull. Thanos is finally subdued enough to incapacitate, not fully asleep.]

Tony Stark: [While pulling] Is he under? Don't let up.

Mantis: [Starting to cry] Be quick. He is very strong.

Tony Stark: Parker, help! Get over here. [Spider-Man drops his web-line, and hurries to help Tony with the gauntlet] She can't hold him much longer. Let's go.

Peter Quill: [Flies over to join the others, stands in front of Thanos, tauntingly] I thought you'd be harder to catch. For the record, this was my plan. Not so strong now, huh? Where is Gamora?

Thanos: My Gamora...?

Peter Quill: No, bull-shit. Where is she?

Mantis: [Shocked] He is in anguish.

Peter Quill: Good.

Mantis: [Crying] He… he mourns.

Drax: What does this monster have to mourn?

Nebula: Gamora.

Peter Quill: [Pause] What?

Nebula: [Realizing with horror and sadness what has happened] He took her to Vormir. He came back with the Soul Stone... but she didn't.

Tony Stark: [Frasps the danger immediately and de-helmets] Okay, Quill, you gotta cool it right now, you understand?

[Quill slowly turns to Thanos,]

Tony Stark: [Shouting his pleads desperately] Don't, don't, don't engage, we've almost got this off!

Peter Quill: Tell me she's lying. [Enraged] Asshole! Tell me you didn't do it!

Thanos: I... had... to.

Peter Quill: [While starting to tear up; quietly] No, you didn't…! No, you didn't…! 

[He then snaps and starts pistol-whipping Thanos thrice in the face, causing Mantis to let go in pain.]

Peter Quill: NO, YOU DIDN'T!

Tony Stark: QUILL!

[Iron Man leaps for Star-Lord's arm, re-helmeting and leaving Spider-Man to pull off the gauntlet.]

Tony Stark: [To the struggling Star-Lord] Hey, stop! Hey, stop! Stop! Hey, stop! Stop!

Peter Parker: It's coming! It's coming! It's coming! [Getting the fingers completely loose] I got it! I got it.... !

[Thanos wakes completely, now well and truly furious. He head-butts Mantis, grabbing the cuff of the gauntlet just as it is sliding off his hand, causing Spider-Man to stumble back, and then throwing Mantis away off his shoulders.]

Peter Parker: [Seeing Mantis with far too much air under her] Oh, God! [He jumps and wraps his arms and legs around her, extending his spider legs to form a roll cage for a safe landing.]

[Thanos kicks Drax off his right leg and into Nebula and Star-Lord, knocking them down. He yanks on the Crimson Bands holding his right hand to throw Doctor Strange far away, and swats away Iron Man and his repulsor shots. The remaining Guardians jump up and charge him again, but he fires a pulse of indigo energy at them that knocks the three of them completely unconscious.]

[Iron Man zooms back in, his nanite arm cannon manifested, and is head-butted to the ground. Thanos looks at him for a beat, then raises the gauntlet towards Titan's moon. Iron Man stares, aghast. Thanos uses a combination of the Power and Space Stones to shatter the moon's surface, then bring the debris down on the field of battle at speed. Iron Man powers out of the way but is caught by a chunk of moon about the size of a baseball field, slamming him into the ground. The Guardians go sailing into the air from the rebound.]

[Back in Wakanda, Shuri is working steadily to complete the Mind Stone's removal; Wanda stands by tensely]

[The Kingsguard, Borderers and Jabari have little success going against Cull Obsidian's chained hammer -- he either sends them flying or punches them into the ground. The Black Panther gets free of his other sorties, leaps and uses all his collected kinetic energy behind a punch that lays Obsidian flat.]

Rocket: [Having found a clear spot] Come and get some, space dogs! [Another wave of Outriders heads right for the raccoon-oid. The Winter Soldier, having come up behind Rocket, grabs him with his mechanical arm, holds him at arms length and spins 540 degrees, firing his own M-249 at the same time.] Come on, get some, get some! Come on, get some! [The Winter Soldier drops Rocket, who looks up at him with an impressed gleam] How much for the gun?

Bucky Barnes: [Snaps off another burst] Not for sale.

Rocket: Okay, how much for the arm? [The Winter Soldier just gives him a look and moves off] Oh, I'll get that arm.

[The tides of battle cause Thor, using Stormbreaker to great effect, and Captain America together. They take a breather.]

Steve Rogers: [Panting] New haircut?

Thor: [Grinning] Notice you've copied my beard.

[Captain America nods, wearily gesturing at his own face with a shield-covered hand. Groot skewers three Outriders with his right arm.]

Thor: By the way, this is a friend of mine. Tree. [Gestures towards Groot with Stormbreaker]

Groot: [In full battle snarl] I AM GROOT! (Translation: You gonna help me or what?!)

Steve Rogers: [Formally, but bemused] I am Steve Rogers.

[In Shuri's lab, a deep rumbling can be heard even at their height. Wanda looks down on the battlefield, and sees movement through the blazing forest between the troopships and the dome. When the disturbance reaches the edge of the trees, it turns into vast moving mounds of earth that easily bypass the force field and emerge -- Threshers, sets of massive, motorized spiked wheels, intended for nothing more than shredding everything in their paths.]

T'Challa: Fall back! Fall back now!

[Wanda watches as at least one set of Threshers separates into individual wheels and starts veering all over the battlefield, and then looks anxiously back at Vision]

James Rhodes: Focus that fire on the left flank, Sam.

Sam Wilson: I'm doing it. [The two fliers use their firepower to crack a Thresher but cannot find a weak spot.]

[Black Widow with her escrima sticks and Okoye with her augmented spear have drifted together when they're suddenly in the path of a Thresher. Both women cringe at their seemingly inevitable shredding when the Scarlet Witch lands in front of both of them, eyes glowing red, lifting the whole Thresher well clear of the ground. Looking behind her, the friendly forces have scattered and replaced by a charging mob of Outriders -- the perfect place to throw a Thresher. Black Widow straightens with a pleased smile, Okoye with an amazed look.]

Okoye: [A touch indignant] Why was she up there all this time?

[The Children of Thanos help answer that question.]

Proxima Midnight: She's on the field. Take it.

[Corvus Glaive kills one of the guards just outside the lab, alerting Shuri to the problem. She starts hastily disconnecting her equipment from Vision's systems; he gasps at the sensations. The Dora Milaje engages Glaive but is sent skidding across the floor. Shuri finishes her shutdown, grabs one of her sonic panther-paws and fires at Glaive. The Dora attacks again, and Glaive sends both her and Shuri through the balcony railing and onto the main lab floor.]

[Vision is not where Corvus Glaive expects to find him. Vision is, in fact, charging at him and knocking him out the window to fall many meters down the face of Mount Bashenga.]

Sam Wilson: Guys, we got a Vision situation here. [He's tackled by a leaping Outrider and grounded.]

Steve Rogers: Somebody get to Vision!

Bruce Banner: I got him! [Bruce has figured out the Hulkbusters repulsor thrusters and makes a beeline for the android.]

Wanda Maximoff: On my way. [She is clobbered by Proxima Midnight's pommel and rolls down into the large ditch from the Thresher before she can move.]

Proxima Midnight: [Jumping down next to the Scarlet Witch] He'll die alone. As will you.

Natasha Romanoff: She's not alone.

[Okoye silently brandishes her spear on the other side of Proxima and nods at Black Widow.]

Proxima Midnight: Euuyaaah! [She leaps for Black Widow, who has joined her sticks into a full staff. She blocks Proxima's blow with an electrical crackle while Okoye runs around the slope to also attack from the front.]

[Corvus Glaive kicks Vision, knocking him down; as he attempts to rise again, Cull Obsidian shows up and swings his hammer in a full arc, throwing Vision even further. He painfully starts to climb to his feet again when a whooshing overhead interrupts the fight as Bruce Banner lands the Hulkbuster between the aliens and the android. He takes a defensive stance, pointing one hand's repulsor at each.]

Bruce Banner: Oh no, oh no you don't. This isn't going to be like New York, pal. This suit's already kicked the crap out of the Hulk-- [Cull Obsidian jumps forward, grabs Bruce's right arm and Bruce in reflex grabs Obsidian's hammer; a jet fires, taking the two of them in a random direction, to the base of a waterfall.]

Bruce Banner: Guys! Vision needs backup now! [Obsidian pulls the Hulkbuster up and kicks it in the small of the back.] [Trying to change into the Hulk while fighting Cull Obsidian in the Hulkbuster armor] Hulk. Hulk, I know you like making your entrance at the last second, well, this is it, man. This is the last, last second. [Bruce extends his left hand protectively; Obsidian grabs the armor's hand, chops the shoulder joint with a relatively small axe then does a roll over Bruce's back to leverage snapping off the Hulkbuster's whole arm] Ahhhhh! Hulk! Hulk! HULK!

Hulk: [Banner's face briefly becomes the Hulk] NOOOO!!!

Bruce Banner: Oh, screw you, ya big green asshole! I'll do it myself! [To Obsidian] Come on!

[He charges the alien, jumps into the air and delivers an effective punch with his remaining hand -- swat, punch, hammer -- except that blow is caught by Obsidian, who punches back, knocking Bruce flat. Obsidian changes his left hand armor into a pointed weapon, and lunges forward to deliver a likely fatal blow, when Bruce grabs the detached Hulkbuster arm out of the water, holding it so Obsidian impales that instead, and slaps the controls.]

Bruce Banner: See you later, Alligator! 

[The repulsors fire, taking Cull Obsidian high into the air -- high enough, in fact, to intersect the defense dome. The Hulkbuster arm drags Obsidian against the field to grotesque destructive effect, ending in a very final explosion.]

Bruce Banner: Hulk, we got a lot to figure out, pal.

[Proxima Midnight alternates heavy blows between her two opponents, but all three of them duck as a single-wheel Thresher tears overhead, the ditch sparing them most of the danger from the wheel-blades. Proxima uses the distraction to kick Black Widow in the face, sending her to the ground. She then grabs Okoye by the shoulder and weapon and throws her meters away.]

[Simultaneously, Corvus Glaive and Vision struggle in the forest at the foot of Mount Bashenga. Glaive grasps Vision's shoulder and uses the leverage to plunge his blade once more into the android's chest.]

Corvus Glaive: I thought you were formidable, machine. But you're dying, like any man. [He yanks his blade out, and Vision collapses. As he bends over his fallen opponent to retrieve the Stone, he's tackled by Captain America at full speed.]

Steve Rogers: Get outta here! [He exchanges blows with Glaive, using his arm-shields as offence as well as defense, then turns to Vision again] GO!

[Black Widow splits her staff back into a pair of sticks to block Proxima Midnight's sword blows, and finally knocks it from her hand. The alien takes to her bare fists instead, knocks down and pins the Black Widow. Proxima triggers an arm-blade from her left-arm armor, and stabs at Black Widow, who barely manages to block the blade with her crossed sticks. As the edge starts to dig into Black Widow's neck anyway, scarlet energy grabs the alien and tosses her into the air right into the path of another passing Thresher. Dark blue blood spatters the women below. The Scarlet Witch sits up, sighing with relief, her hands still shimmering.]

Natasha Romanoff: That was really gross.

[Captain America keeps blocking Corvus Glaive's staff weapon using his shields, finally knocking it from the alien's hands just before he's thrown over a fallen tree and pinned, Glaive's hand at his throat. Even with his physical abilities, Captain America's struggling -- until a glaive-blade pierces Glaive's chest, and is pushed all the way through. Vision raises his enemy in a perfect mirror of the first attack on him, and holds him for a moment, before dropping Glaive's corpse to one side and collapsing exhaustively.]

Steve Rogers: [helping him back up] I thought I told you to go.

Vision: We don't trade lives, Captain.

[The remaining Guardians and Avengers are dealing with the gravitic aftermath of dumping a large chunk of moon onto an unstable planet's surface. The unconscious Guardians are flying upwards uncontrollably, moon-chunks are still making fiery ballistic in-bounds, and random debris and massive rocks are floating in any possible direction. Spider-Man is well-equipped to handle this physically, even if he's freaking out emotionally.]

Peter Parker: [Webs Mantis] I got you! I got you! [Snags Drax, securing both of them to something not moving] I'm sorry I can't remember anybody's names! [Reels in Star-Lord]

[The Cloak of Levitation sets Doctor Strange down on a relatively stable outcrop as Thanos extricates himself from rubble. The Sorcerer Supreme makes a few passes with his hands, producing the familiar golden magic filigree circles, and slams his hands down on the rock before him, invoking the Seven Suns of Cinnibus as a lightning-like effect of immense heat jumping from rock to rock until it reaches Thanos, sending him flying -- but he makes use of the erratic gravity to keep control and fire back a blast from the Power Stone.]

[Doctor Strange blocks the purple plume with a wall of Mirror Dimension, which he then pushes back at Thanos. He shatters the wall with the Power Stone, and suctions the magic into a miniature black hole with the Space Stone, volleying it back at Doctor Strange. Just in time, Doctor Strange raises a shield and changes the dark energy into a swarm of aqua butterflies which return to their master.]

[Before Thanos can counterattack again, Doctor Strange levitates and invokes the Images of Ikonn, giving him arms like a Hindu deity before dozens of Strange replications rush away, forming a circular wall around a snarling Thanos. They call cast magical cords, wrapping around Thanos' torso, arms and hands; he struggles to close his gauntleted fist, and uses the Soul and Power Stones to discover the real Doctor Strange among the many copies, blowing the duplicates away and sending the singular Doctor Strange reeling. Reality and Space pull Doctor Strange forward, Thanos grasping him by the throat once in range. Doctor Strange grabs futilely at Thanos' hand.]

Thanos: You're full of tricks, wizard.

Stephen Strange: [as Thanos reaches for the Eye of Agamotto] No!

Thanos: [He snaps the Eye off its chain] Yet you never once used your greatest weapon. [He crushes it in his bare hand] A fake. [He throws Doctor Strange hard enough that Doctor Strange's head hits stone and he passes out.]

[Almost simultaneously, a red and gold device slaps into the palm of the Infinity Gauntlet, bracing the fingers open; and a red and gold Avenger makes a fast and hard entrance.]

Tony Stark: [sounding just about done with the Titan] You throw another moon at me, and I'm gonna lose it.

Thanos *with a slight echo*: Stark.

Tony Stark: You know me?

Thanos: I do. 

Thanos: You're not the only one cursed with knowledge.

Tony Stark: My only curse is you. [Small rockets pop out of Iron Man's back and launch at Thanos.]

Thanos: Come on!

[The rockets all explode on target, momentarily shrouding Thanos in smoke. Before it clears, Iron Man pile drives into Thanos horizontally, using his single super-jet boot configuration. As he bounces off, he flips and sticks his landing, immediately re-configuring his boots into ground clamps for stability and his gloves into rocket-driven battering rams, punching Thanos into a ruined wall behind him.]

[Thanos shakes it off quickly, reaches forward and tears Iron Man's helmet off, revealing Tony's surprised expression before the suit recovers automatically and re-forms his head protection. The Titan makes use of the fractional delay and punches back hard, sending Iron Man sliding meters away, giving Thanos time to rip the brace device off the gauntlet. He immediately uses the Power Stone to stream furiously lambent energy at his opponent, who forms a shield to kneel behind just as instantly, getting pushed back even further by the incredible force.]

[Iron Man slides out from behind the shield, letting the angled energy push him away for a faster start, and whips back to Thanos full thrusters; he kicks at the Titan with his left foot, turning the boot into a ground clamp at the same time to pin the gauntlet, and keeps twisting while his left glove becomes a ram again, slamming into Thanos' face, cutting his cheek.]

Thanos: [Panting] All that for a drop of blood.

[He smiles briefly before punching Iron Man, sending him pinwheeling, then starts beating him with his fists. Iron Man attempts to block the blows with his forearms, but Thanos is relentless, picking him up by the helmet and blasting his midsection with the Power Stone. The gaps in nanite coverage are now gaping, as the armor loses the ability to recover from the intensity and extent of the damage. Iron Man lands hard from the Power blast, struggles to one knee and fires his right hand repulsor at the inexorable Thanos; the beam is easily deflected by the gauntlet. He gets to both feet as the suit tries to complete repairs, adding the beam from his left hand as well. Thanos walks right up to him, and backhands the incomplete helmet completely off Tony's head. He crosses his arms to block a blow from Thanos' gauntlet, and has his left hand caught over his head. In desperation, he forms what's left of his right glove into a short-sword, which is also easily caught by Thanos, snapping it off clean and driving it through Tony's left side. The fight is over.]

[Thanos walks Tony back until he sits, and places the gauntlet almost comfortingly on Tony's head.]

Thanos: You have my respect, Stark. When I'm done, half of humanity will still be alive. [He lets go, straightens and steps back] I hope they remember you.

[Tony's just a little distracted with the pain, and blood drooling out of his mouth, and compromised breathing.]

[Thanos raises the gauntlet, closing his fist, all four Stones glowing]

Stephen Strange: Stop! [Sitting up and sounding entirely damaged] Spare his life... and I will give you the stone.

Thanos: No tricks. [Doctor Strange shakes his head as Thanos points all four Stones at him instead.]

Tony Stark: Don't...!

[Doctor Strange reaches up and plucks the Time Stone out of its hiding place in the stars. He opens his hand, the scars on his fingers and their inherent trembling particularly obvious now, and the Stone floats to Thanos' bare hand. Doctor Strange watches him intently, as he takes the Stone and drops it into the thumb setting, the energy pulse making the Titan wince.]

Thanos: One to go. [An energy blast hits the gauntlet right in the empty Mind Stone setting, and Thanos grimaces in surprise.]

Peter Quill: [Screaming in incoherent rage, helmet up, firing with both hands and flying straight for Thanos.]

[Thanos doesn't even bother responding to the assault -- he just leaves. Star-Lord flies through where Thanos had been and crashes, rolling several times]

Peter Quill: [Standing and de-helmeting] Where is he?!

[Tony stitches up his stab wound as well as he can with his suit functions; he has no breath for answers.]

Peter Quill: [Now fearful instead of furious] Did we just lose?

Tony Stark: [To Doctor Strange, sadly, who has given the Time Stone to Thanos] Why would you do that?

Stephen Strange: We're in the Endgame now.

[M'Baka bashes another Outrider -- the ground game has improved considerably with the addition of the God of Thunder. His tribesmen are equally successful around him.]

M'Baku: MAYEFA!

Jabari Warriors: YA HU HU!

[Thor is in the air, using Stormbringer on the Outrider drop ships which are now retreating. He is having considerably more success than the Wakandan Dragon fliers firing on the fleeing ships.]

Wanda Maximoff: [landing as she finally locates Vision] Are you okay? [Vision flinches in pain before he can answer] What? What is it?

Vision: He's here.

[The wind picks up. It feels... strange. Eerie.]

Steve Rogers: Everyone, on my position. We have incoming. [He is joined by the Black Widow, Falcon, Okoye and the Black Panther in short order.]

Natasha Romanoff: What the hell?

Bruce Banner: [Bruce sees the blue-black clouds of a Space Stone relocation just before Thanos steps forward, and confirms this isn't just another member of the Black Order] Cap. That's him.

Steve Rogers: Eyes up. Stay sharp.

[Bruce reaches Thanos first, lunging forward fist-first -- but Thanos uses the Space Stone on him, renders him immaterial until the Hulkbuster is half-buried in the stone of the cliff behind him, and freezes Bruce in place.]

[Captain America is sent flying by purple energy before he even gets to strike a single blow.]

[The Black Panther, armor fully charged kinetically, leaps high and with claws extended, but is easily grabbed by the throat and punched to the ground, his armor discharging violently.]

[Falcon stoops, strafing with both Steyr pistols, but is felled when his wings become rubbery and unable to sustain flight.]

Vision: Wanda. It's time.

Wanda Maximoff: No.

Vision: They can't stop him, Wanda, but we can. Look at me. You have the power to destroy the stone.

Wanda Maximoff: Don't.

Vision: You must do it. Wanda, please. We...are...out of time.

Wanda Maximoff: I can't.

Vision: Yes, you can. You can. If he gets the stone, half the universe dies.

Wanda Maximoff: I-

Vision: It's not fair. It shouldn't be you, but it is. 

Vision: It's all right. You could never hurt me....

Vision: I just...feel you. [The Scarlet Witch extends a trembling hand and starts beaming her energy at the Mind Stone.]

[The following action is mostly muted. War Machine joins the fight, firing his guns at Thanos until he uses the gauntlet to crush his armor around him and toss him aside.]

[The Winter Soldier runs in firing, and is punched away by the Power Stone.]

[Okoye activates the Vibranium-powered elements on her spear and flings it; Power stops it inches from Thanos, and throws her and it aside while wrapping the Black Widow in inescapable bands of earth.]

[Groot stabs his hands into the ground to wrap Thanos in cables of roots, which he breaks easily.]

[The Scarlet Witch watches all this over one shoulder, and turns back to Vision to add her left hand to her tearful effort.]

[Captain America slides under one blow and comes up swinging his deployed arm-shields, punching Thanos in the gut and chin. He grabs the gauntlet, keeping Thanos' fingers un-clenched. Thanos looks very briefly impressed at Captain America's efforts as he screams before slamming a fist into his head and rendering him insensible.]

[The Scarlet Witch looks over her shoulder again and sees Thanos approaching unopposed. She swings her left hand around to fend him off with a stream of scarlet energy, and pushes him back despite his blue-purple energy shield, but then he starts to make slow headway.]

Vision: [Very softly] It's all right. It's all right. I love you.

[At those words, the yellow Mind Stone finally starts to crack. Vision's face is overcome by an expression of joyful peace, and as the crystal fragments completely, a pulse of pure yellow energy explodes from him, shuddering the trees for many meters around his epicenter. Wanda's and Thanos' energy subsides.]

Thanos: [Walking closer to the Scarlet Witch] I understand, my child. Better than anyone.

Wanda Maximoff: [Snarls] You could never...

Thanos: [Reaches down to presume to stroke her hair, as if in comfort] Today, I lost more than you can know. But now is no time to mourn. Now... is no time at all. [He reaches forward, clenching the gauntlet, emerald filigree surrounding his wrist, making a gesture very similar to that Doctor Strange made when activating the Eye of Agamotto. In response, a bead of yellow light starts gathering in on itself as time is reversed and growing in size, solidifying into an intact and conscious Vision]

Wanda Maximoff: NO! [She lunges for Vision and is swatted away.]

[Thanos picks up Vision by the throat, lifting him to eye-level, and digs the fingers of his right hand into Vision's forehead, digging out the Mind Stone. He pulls it loose, and Vision goes limp and colorless; he tosses the lifeless android aside like trash. Bringing his gauntleted hand up, he slowly moves the Mind Stone over the last empty setting, and drops it in. The energy surge is much more than any previous -- his torso is wreathed with iridescent static and he bellows from the sensations.]

[As Thanos studies the completed gauntlet, a massive bolt of lighting strikes him, digging him into the ground and grinding him back for meters. Thor has arrived, eyes glowing with power, stooping down from the sky like a bird of prey. The God of Thunder pauses his attack, reverses his position, raises Stormbreaker above his head and hurls it -- Thanos fires the whole might of the gauntlet against it, but it only creates a rainbow-like bow-shock, not slowing the ax as it slams right into Thanos' chest.]

Thor: [Lands in front of Thanos, who is down on one knee; hatefully.] I told you. You'd die for that! [reffering to the deaths of Loki and Heimdall]

[He takes hold of the back of Thanos' head and forces Stormbreaker deeper into his chest, staring angrily into his eyes while Thanos cries out in pain]

Thanos: [Weakly] You should have... you... [suddenly stronger] You should have gone for the head! 

[He raises his gauntlet and snaps his fingers.]

Thor: NO!

[The scene whites out. It cuts sharply to a view of Thanos his hand on his chest, no wounds visible. Thanos now seems to be inside the Soul Stone, where he sees a child and the pavilion from the home world of the Zen-Whoberi.]

Thanos: Daughter?

[The child turns around, revealing herself to be Young Gamora.]

Gamora: Did you do it?

Thanos: Yes.

[He looks down.]

Gamora: [Beat] What did it cost?

Thanos: [Solemnly] Everything.

[Now out of the Soul World, Thanos is snapped back to reality, and notices the damage inflicted on the gauntlet -- the metal scorched and distorted from heat, the stones no longer glowing.]

Thor: What'd you do? 

Thor: [Angrily] WHAT DID YOU DO?!

[Thanos nearly seems to not notice Thor before he uses the Space Stone and teleports away, leaving Stormbreaker behind on Wakandan ground.]

Steve Rogers: [Stumbles into the clearing, holding his left side] Where'd he go? Thor... where'd he go?

Bucky Barnes: Steve?

[Bucky suddenly stumbles over, drops his gun and collapses into ashes, much to Steve's shock; he walks over and touches the ground where Bucky's ashes evaporated disbelievingly.]

[On the battlefield, Wakandan soldiers disintegrate to ashes, much to M'Baku's horror.]

T'Challa: [While reaching for a fallen Okoye] Up, General. Up! This is no place to die. [King T'Challa holds out his hand for Okoye. He suddenly disintegrates into ashes and, in anguish, Okoye falls back on the ground. Few seconds later, she gets up herself.]

Okoye: Kumkani?!

Groot: [Slowly corrodes into ashes as well by Rocket] I am Groot... [TRANSLATION: "Dad?"]

[off-screen Okoye repeats herself]

Rocket: No... no. No. No. No! Groot, no...

[Wanda is mourning over Vision. She then turns into ashes. An injured Sam turns to ashes, hidden in the undergrowth.]

James Rhodes: [Searching for Sam, missing him by only a few feet] Sam? [Back to Okoye is is whimpering for her disintegrated king] Sam, where you at?!

[On Titan, the remaining members of the Guardians and Avengers collect themselves -- Mantis props up Star-Lord, Spider-Man helps Tony to his feet, Drax and Nebula manage to limp over on their own.]

Mantis: Something's happening. [She disintegrates into ashes.]

[Quill looks behind him as he sees Drax disintegrate]

Drax: [To Quill as he dissolves] Quill?

[Quill stares in horror as he turns back to Stark.]

Tony Stark: [Staring panicked at the slowly fading Quill] Steady, Quill.

Peter Quill: Aw, man. [Quill also gets disintegrated into ashes]

Stephen Strange: [Calmly turns to Stark] Tony, there was no other way. [He finally gets erased.]

Peter Parker: [Realizes he's fading away] Mr. Stark? [Stark stares horrified at Parker,] I don't feel so good...

Tony Stark: [Trying to be calm, his voice shaking as he looks at Peter in terror] You're all right?

Peter Parker: [Stumbling and terrified] I don't know what's -- I don't know what's happening. I don't-- [Parker falls into Stark's arms, clutching him tight while beginning to cry.] I don't wanna go, I don't wanna go, Mr. Stark, please. Please, I don't wanna go. I don't wanna go... [There is a short silence before Peter speaks again] I'm sorry. [Parker disintegrates into ashes in Stark's arms.]

[Tony falls forward from the lack of weight in his arms, before staring at his hands in disbelief.]

Nebula: [To Tony Stark, seeing Thanos' victory.] He did it.

[Stark mourns silently at their failure. Back on Wakanda, the remaining team members, Captain America, Thor, War Machine, Black Widow, Bruce Banner, and Rocket are left mourning near Vision's dead body. Captain America turns over Vision's bleached corpse as Black Widow runs up to the other survivors.]

James Rhodes: What is this? What the hell is happening?

Steve Rogers: [Pause] Oh, God.

[Meanwhile, in a different place, in a rustic house on a terraced slope with a scarecrow made of discarded armor, Thanos sits down and watches the sun rise.]

[In the mid-credits scene, nothing is shown. But 2 voices are heard.] 

Nick Fury: Still no word from Stark?

Maria Hill: No, not yet. We're watching every satellite in both hemispheres, there's still nothing. [Receives three beeps from her device.]

[The screen now shows Nick Fury and Maria Hill on Earth, driving in a car.]

Nick Fury: What is it?

Maria Hill: Multiple bogeys over Wakanda.

Nick Fury: Same energy signatures as New York?

Maria Hill: Ten times bigger.

Nick Fury: Tell Klein. We'll meet him at- -

Maria Hill: [warning] Nick, Nick! [A car spirals out of control in front of them. They get out and Hill checks on the passengers.]

Nick Fury: They okay?

[Behind their vehicle, a motorcycle lies in the middle of the street with a concerned citizen approaching it.]

Maria Hill: There's no one here.

[They hear helicopter rotor sounds from the direction they'd come, but it sounds wrong -- a Leonardo executive helicopter, tail rotor smoking from damage already, appears and crashes nose-first into a building. Screaming intensifies. The two are now witnessing civilians around them suddenly disintegrating.]

Nick Fury: Call Control. Code Red.

Maria Hill: [looks at her hands] Nick?

[Fury turns around to see Hill disintegrating.]

Nick Fury: Hill?

[Fury then races back to their car and gets a what appears to be an old pager with extra gear attached out of his bag on the back seat. He sends out an emergency alert, mere seconds before his hand turns into ashes.]

Nick Fury: Oh, no... 

Nick Fury: Motherf...

[Before he could finish the line, Fury corrodes to dust. The pager falls to the ground, red lights blinking on the additions; the camera zooms in and we see the device display "SENDING..." then display a red-blue-and-gold star insignia -- the symbol of Captain Marvel.] [Cut to black.]

[Closing title: Marvel Studios]

[Screen title 1: Distributed by Walt Disney Studio Motion Pictures]

[Screen title 2: Thanos will return]

The end.

After the devastating events of Avengers: Infinity War, the universe is in ruins. With the help of remaining allies, the Avengers assemble once more in order to reverse Thanos' actions and restore balance to the universe.

(The screen first panels up to an arrow being nocked into a bow. The archer behind firmly grips it tight as it was aiming towards the target. The camera reveals Clint Barton holding up a few arrows while mentoring his daughter, Lila Barton, on shooting one.)

CLINT BARTON: Okay, hold on. Don't shoot. You see where you're going?

LILA BARTON: Mhm.

CLINT BARTON: Okay, now let's worry about how you get there. [Clint corrects his daughter's foot to the proper position, and adjusts her shooting stance.]

CLINT BARTON: Here. Can you see?

LILA BARTON: Yeah.

CLINT BARTON: You sure?

LILA BARTON: Mhm. [Clint pushes Lila's hair in front of her face while covering her left eye.]

CLINT BARTON: How about now?

[Both Lila and Clint giggle, as the camera panels into a long shot showing a target nailed on a tree, and the rest of Barton family having a picnic in the field.]

CLINT BARTON: Alright. Ready your fingers.

COOPER BARTON: Nice.

LAURA BARTON: Nice throw, kiddo.

COOPER BARTON: You go.

LAURA BARTON: Hey, you guys want mayo or mustard, or both? [Camera switches to Lila who then proceeds to look at Clint.]

LILA BARTON: Who wants mayo on a hotdog?

CLINT BARTON: Probably your brothers.

[Clint looks at his wife, Laura]

CLINT BARTON: Uh, two mustard, please! Thanks, mama. [Camera switches to Laura facing Nathaniel]

LAURA BARTON: Mayo or mustard?

NATHANIEL BARTON: How about ketchup?

LAURA BARTON: Ketchup? [Camera switches back to Clint and his daughter] I can do ketchup.

CLINT BARTON: Mind your elbow. [Lila releases the arrow and it hits the target directly in the bullseye.] Hahaha! Good job, Hawkeye. Go get your arrow.

LAURA BARTON: Hey guys! Enough practice, soup's on!

CLINT BARTON: Alright, we're coming; we're hungry. [Clint looks behind him, but there's no one there, but dust being blown away by the wind.] Lila, let's go. [Clint starts to look around] Lila? [Clint starts to move and look around, and pick up the bow she had.] Honey? [Clint looks around to see Laura and the boys, only they are gone now. He looks seriously panicked and confused as he hurriedly drops the arrows and jogs over to where they were.] Hey, babe! Babe? Babe? Boys? Boys? Laura?

[Lightning crackles]

[SOMEWHERE IN SPACE]

[Marvel Studios Opening sequence begins with Dear Mr. Fantasy playing. Only the heroes who survived the snap are shown.]

[Scene switches to Nebula and Tony on the ship playing paper football]

NEBULA: Wrra! [Nebula, frustrated, puts her hands in a fighting stance while looking at Tony.]

TONY STARK: You don't need to do that. Because uh... you're just holding position. [Nebula flicks a paper football towards Tony] Oh yeah, that was close. [Nebula once again flicks a paper football towards Tony] That's a goal. We're now one apiece.

NEBULA: I would like to try again. [Nebula flicks a paper football towards Tony]

TONY STARK: We're tied up. Feel the tension? It's fun.

[Tony poorly flicks a paper football towards Nebula]

TONY STARK: That was terrible. Now you have a chance to win. [Nebula flicks the paper football towards Tony]

TONY STARK: And... you've won. Congratulations. [Tony reaches his hand out to shake Nebula's hand]

TONY STARK: Fair game. Good sport. [Nebula shakes Tony's hand] Have fun?

NEBULA: It was fun.

[Camera switches to see Iron Man's busted helmet. Tony Stark's hand reaches forward to turn on the helmet. We pan out to see that he's sitting on the floor of a gloomy Benatar. The weight of the recent events of INFINITY WAR evident in Tony's posture. He taps the helmet with a sigh.]

TONY STARK: This thing on? [The helmet scans Tony. Tony leans against the wall while taking deep breaths. He looks skinnier and weak with malnutrition.] Hey, Miss Potts... Pep. If you find this recording, don't post it on social media. It's gonna be a real tear-jerker. I don't know if you're ever going to see these. I don't even know if you're... if you're still... Oh god, I hope so. Today is day 21, uh 22. [Cut to Tony standing at a window to stare out in space, waiting for his impending doom to arrive.] You know, if it wasn't for the existential terror of staring into a void of space, I'd say I'm feeling better today. The infection's run its course, Thanks to the blue meanie back there. [Cut to a shot of Nebula sitting in the back of the Benatar.] You'd love her. Very practical. Only a tiny bit sadistic. Some fuel cells were cracked during battle, but we figured out a way to reverse the ion charge to buy ourselves about 48 hours of time. [A shot of Tony and Nebula working on the fuel cells of the Benatar.] But it's now dead in the water. We're 1000 light years from the nearest 7-11. Oxygen will run out tomorrow. And that'll be it. And Pep, I ... I know I said no more surprises, but I was really hoping to pull off one last one. But it looks like... well you know what it looks like. Don't feel bad about this. I mean, if you grovel for a couple of weeks, and then move on with enormous guilt. I should probably lie down. Please know that... when I drift off, I will think about you. Because it's always you. 

[With that, Tony turns the helmet off. He rubs his thumb over the left eye, and then leans down, to what would be his last sleep. Nebula walks over to him, and carries him to Drax's seat, and lies him there. She walks away dejected.]

[A vast bluish nebula illuminates the space surrounding them. Cut to a shot of Tony's face, which for the first time shows age and weakness. There is a light on his face, which grows brighter and brighter until he's forced to open his eyes. The camera pans around to the light source, which is slowly revealed to be CAROL DANVERS.]

[A bathroom in the Avengers compound. We see Steve Rogers holding a blade, having just shaved off his beard. He sighs and looks into a side mirror. The mirror suddenly starts shaking, slowly at first, and then severely. Cut to the yard in the Avengers Compound, we see Steve Rogers, Natasha Romanoff, Bruce Banner, and James Rhodes walking out looking at something, the Benatar carried by Carol Danvers as she lands the spacecraft. The landing gears deploy as they touch down. The entry hatch opens, and Tony and Nebula walk out, Tony being supported by Nebula. Steve runs to Tony to help him stand up. Tony grips Steve's arm as he joins him.]

TONY STARK: Couldn't stop him.

STEVE ROGERS: Neither could I.

TONY STARK: I lost the kid.

STEVE ROGERS: Tony, we lost.

TONY STARK: Is, uh...? [Tony struggles to ask about Pepper.]

PEPPER POTTS: Oh, my God! Oh, my God! [She and Tony embrace.]

TONY STARK: It's okay.

[Rocket Raccoon sits down with Nebula and takes her hand, both silently mourning their losses. In the Avengers Compound. The heroes are sitting in a living room area. Tony is sitting at a table, getting blood for healing. A holographic casualty report lists the names and faces of those lost to the Decimation.]

JAMES RHODES: It's been 23 days since Thanos came to Earth.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: World governments are in pieces. The parts that are still working are trying to take a census. And it looks like he did... he did exactly what he said he was gonna do. Thanos wiped out fifty percent, of all living creatures.

TONY STARK: Where is he now? Where?

STEVE ROGERS: We don't know. He just opened a portal and walked through.

[Cut to a shot of a sullen-looking Thor, sitting on a bench, seemingly deep in thought.]

TONY STARK: What's wrong with him?

ROCKET: Oh, he's pissed. He thinks he failed. Which of course he did, but you know there's a lot of that's going around, ain't there?

TONY STARK: Honestly, until this exact second, I literaly thought you were a Build-A-Bear.

ROCKET: Maybe I am.

STEVE ROGERS: We've been hunting Thanos for three weeks now. Deep Space scans, and satellites, and we got nothing. Tony, you fought him.

TONY STARK: Who told you that? [Surprised] I didn't fight him. No, he wiped my face with a planet while the Bleecker Street Magician gave away the store. That's what happened. There was no fight.

STEVE ROGERS: Okay.

TONY STARK: He's unbeatable.

STEVE ROGERS: Did he give you any clues, any coordinates, anything?

TONY STARK: Pfft! I saw this coming a few years back. I had a vision. I didn't wanna believe it. Thought I was dreaming.

STEVE ROGERS: Tony, I'm gonna need you to focus.

TONY STARK: [starting to seethe] And I needed you. As in past tense. That trumps what you need. It's too late buddy. Sorry. You know what I need? [Tony stands, pushing things off the table with a clatter. Everyone winces at the noise.] I need to shave. And I believe I remember telling all youse -

[Tony goes for Steve. Rhodey quickly comes in front of him, trying to stop him.]

RHODEY: Tony, Tony, Tony!

TONY STARK: Alive and otherwise what we needed was a suit of armor around the world! Remember that? Whether it impacted our precious freedoms or not- that's what we needed!

STEVE ROGERS: Well, that didn't work out, did it?

TONY STARK: I said, "we'd lose". You said, "We'll do that together too." And guess what, Cap? We lost. And you weren't there. But that's what we do, right? Our best work after the fact? We're the Avengers, we're the Avengers. Not the Prevengers.

RHODEY: Okay.

TONY STARK: Right?

RHODEY: You made your point. Just sit down.

TONY STARK: Okay...

RHODEY: Okay?

TONY STARK: Nah, nah. Here's my point. You know what?

RHODEY: Tony, you're sick.

TONY STARK: [Referring to Carol] She's great, by the way.

RHODEY: Sit down. Sit.

TONY STARK: We need you. You're new blood. Bunch of tired old mules! [Tony walks right up to Steve's face, his voice hushing down to a venomous whisper] I got nothing for you, Cap! I got no coordinates, no clues, no strategies, no options. Zero. Zip. Nada. No trust. Liar.

[Steve looks affected by Tony's words. The old friends just gaze at each other. After a moment, Tony rips his Arc Reactor from his chest and shoves it into Steve's hand.]

TONY STARK: Here, take this. You find him, and you put that on. You hide.

[Tony falls to the ground. Steve is by his side and everyone is starting to gather.]

STEVE ROGERS: Tony!

TONY STARK: I'm fine. I...

[Tony falls into a heap, unconscious.]

[Cut to a shot of Tony on a bed, with Pepper at his side.]

RHODEY: Bruce gave him a sedative. He's gonna probably be out for the rest of the day.

CAROL DANVERS: You guys take care of him. And I'll bring him a Xorrian Elixir when I come back.

[Carol walks away.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Where are you going?

CAROL DANVERS: To kill Thanos.

[Steve and Natasha share a look before walking after her.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Hey, you know, we usually work as a team here, and between you and I, morale's a little fragile.

STEVE ROGERS: We realize up there is more your territory, but this is our fight too.

RHODEY: You even know where he is?

CAROL DANVERS: I know people who might.

NEBULA: [Standing behind Carol] Don't bother. I can tell you where Thanos is. Thanos spent a long time trying to perfect me. And when he worked, he talked about his great plan. Even disassembled, I wanted to please him. I'd ask "where would we go once his plan was complete?". His answer was always the same: "To the Garden."

RHODEY: That's cute, Thanos has a retirement plan.

STEVE ROGERS: So where is he?

ROCKET: When Thanos snapped his fingers, Earth became ground zero for a power surge of ridiculously cosmic proportions. No one's ever seen anything like it... Until two days ago. [A hologram of a planet pops up, with a shockwave visibly traversing the surface.] On this planet.

NEBULA: Thanos is there.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: He used the stones again.

BRUCE BANNER: Hey, hey, hey. We'd be going in short-handed, you know.

RHODEY: Look, he's still got the stones, so...

CAROL DANVERS: So let's get him... Use them to bring everyone back.

RHODEY: Just like that?

STEVE ROGERS: Yeah, just like that.

[Steve and Carol share a knowing look.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Even if there's a small chance that we can undo this... I mean we owe it to everyone who's not in this room to try.

BRUCE BANNER: If we do this, how do we know it's gonna end any differently than it did before?

CAROL DANVERS: Because before, you didn't have me.

RHODEY: Hey, new girl, everyone here is about that superhero life. And if you don't mind my asking, where the hell have you been all this time?

CAROL DANVERS: There are a lot of other planets in the universe. And unfortunately, they didn't have you guys.

[Thor, who has been eating a snack behind all this time, stands up and walks over to Carol. She looks behind at him. He holds his hand up, and catches Stormbreaker as it flies over to him, missing Carol by inches. But Carol doesn't even flinch, instead smiling at the God of Thunder.]

Thor: I like this one. [smiles]

STEVE ROGERS: Let's go get this son of a b*tch. (yes, cap just said what you thought)

[Title Screen: Avengers: Endgame]

[Cut to a shot of everyone except for Tony aboard the Benatar.]

ROCKET: Okay, who here hasn't been to space?

[Nat, Cap, and Rhodey raise their hands.]

RHODEY: Why?

ROCKET: You better not throw up on my ship.

NEBULA: Approaching jump in 3... 2... 1!

[The ship jumps forward into a wormhole, and we see Steve holding onto his seat for dear life. A close up of his eyes show them widening slightly at the exhilaration of this new experience. The ship slows down, and the ship hovers in orbit of the planet seen in the hologram previously. Carol Danvers hovers in front of the Benatar.]

CAROL DANVERS: I'll head down for recon.

[A shot of the passengers inside the Benatar preparing for the impending confrontation.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: This is gonna work, Steve.

STEVE ROGERS: I know it will.

[We see Steve holding a compass with an image of Peggy Carter.]

STEVE ROGERS: Cause I don't know what I'm going to do if it doesn't.

[Carol Danvers approaches the Benatar.]

CAROL DANVERS: No satellites, no ships, no armies, no ground defenses of any kind. It's just him.

NEBULA: And that's enough.

[Cut to a shot of a scenic lush tropical fauna. It surrounds a shed on a farm. A scarecrow made of Thanos' armour is seen before we cut to a shot focusing on the burnt Infinity Gauntlet on Thanos' arm. He's walking among his crops, harvesting fruit, and putting them in a sack. He walks over to the shed, with a dragging quality to his legs, like it pains him to walk, presumably his living quarters, and tries to sit down, and we see his full face. His whole left side is burnt black with blisters; He looks ridiculously pathetic compared to when we saw him last.]

[Suddenly, Carol Danvers flies through the roof, knocking Thanos down, and grabbing his neck. Bruce in the Hulkbuster armor bursts from the ground, and grabs Thanos' Infinity Gauntlet arm. Thor flies in and slices off the Infinity Gauntlet. Rhodey flies down with Rocket and aims guns on Thanos' head.]

[Captain America walks in his Winter Soldier Outfit, with Natasha right behind him, staring murderously at Thanos. Rocket goes over to the sliced off Infinity Gauntlet, and kicks it over, as everyone realizes that there are no stones in it.]

ROCKET: Oh no.

STEVE ROGERS: Where are they?

CAROL DANVERS: Answer the question!

THANOS: The universe required correction. After that, the stones served no purpose, beyond temptation.

BRUCE BANNER: You murdered trillions! [Bruce pushes him to the ground wearing Hulk Buster armor]

THANOS: You should be grateful. [Punched by Hulk Buster]

NATASHA ROMANONFF: Where are the Stones?

THANOS: Gone. Reduced to atoms.

BRUCE BANNER: You used them two days ago!

THANOS: I used the stones to destroy the stones. It nearly killed me. But the work is done. It always will be. [sits himself a little straighter.] I am... inevitable.

RHODEY: We have to tear this place apart, he-he-he has to be lying.

NEBULA: My father is many things. A liar is not one of them.

THANOS: Ah, thank you, daughter. [Nebula looks down, a little uncomfortable.] Perhaps I treated you too harshly.

[We see Thor's face filled with rage as he raises to summon Stormbreaker, and before anyone can stop him, SLICES Thanos' head off. Thanos' limp body falls to the floor. Nebula wipes off some of the blood spatter.]

ROCKET: What... What did you do?

[Thor looks broken, realizing what he has done.]

THOR: I went for the head.

[Thor slowly walks out of the shed, no real purpose in his steps as the screen blurs to nothingness.]

FIVE

[A pause]

YEARS

[pause]

LATER

[We see shots of New York City, seemingly abandoned. There are a lot of boats gathered around a dock, all abandoned. A baseball stadium comes into view, with no life present at all. The aftermath of the Decimation is evident, and Earth has not coped well.]

[Cut to an abandoned cafe, with a poster on the wall labeled "WHERE DO WE GO, NOW THAT THEY'RE GONE?". A therapy session is taking place with Steve Rogers and seven other people.]

JOE RUSSO: So I, uh... Went on a date the other day. It's the first time in five years, you know? I'm sitting there at dinner... I didn't even know what to talk about.

STEVE ROGERS: What did you talk about?

JOE RUSSO: Same old crap, you know? How things have changed, and... my job, his job... How much we miss the Mets. And then things get quiet... He cried as they were serving the salads.

JIM STARLIN: What about you?

JOE RUSSO: I cried... just before dessert. But I'm seeing him again tomorrow, so...

STEVE ROGERS: That's great. You did the hardest part. You took the jump, you didn't know where you were gonna come down. And that's it. That's those little brave baby steps we gotta take. To try and become whole again, try and find purpose. I went in the ice in '45 right after I met the love of my life. Woke up 70 years later. You gotta move on. Gotta to move on. The world is in our hands. It's left to us guys, and we got to do something with it. Otherwise... Thanos should have killed all of us.

[Screen Title: SAN FRANCISCO]

(The camera pans to San Francisco Bridge, all the way to a self-storage facility with a sign saying "U-STORE It, SELF STORAGE", with its interior filled with stored stuff and junk until it spots Luis' van from "Ant-Man and the Wasp", behind a metallic fence with a label named "LANG". A rat crawls over the van's rear windshield and accidentally activates the controls for opening the Quantum Realm, haphazardly activating the Quantum Tunnel. The rear door busts open, flinging Lang outside the van.)

Scott Lang: (grunts as he pushes away a cushion out of his body, and deactivates the helmet, but still grunting in pain, as he sweeps away sparks from an electrical failure out of his suit, then try to stand up.) What the hell?

(He manages to stand up, as another electrical failure sparks out of his gauntlets, and now looks around in a confused look.)

Scott Lang: Hope?

(Inside a security office, a security guard (Ken Jeong) reading a book as he looks upon his security screen, seeing something going on in one of the storage facilities. In the cameras, it shows Lang in his casual clothing, shouting, waving a sign with the word "HELP" written on it.)

(Outside the facility, he pulls out a pushcart and looks back seeing the guard giving a stern look from far. He walks around until reaching his hometown, finding a post filled with MISSING posters, abandoned houses, a wrecked car, nothing but desolation. He then sees a kid in a bike pass by.)

Scott Lang: [yells] Kid! Hey kid!

[The kid stops his bike as he stares back in a serious look.]

Scott Lang: What the hell happened here?

[The kid still stares at him and is almost about to tear up, but immediately turns away from him and move on. Lang still gives the same confused look, as he arrives in somewhat a memorial called "THE VANISHED", with all the names of the people who became victims of the Decimation. As Lang arrives on one of the engraved stones, he immediately drops the handle in shock.]

Scott Lang: No. Please. Please, please. [moves on to check the other side of the engraved stone] No, no, no. No. [Lang excuses aside a young couple as he keeps on checking another engraved stone if his daughter's name is on one.] Excuse me, sorry. No, Cassie, no.

[The camera keeps panning and switching as Lang checks the rest of engraved stones if her daughter's name was in one.]

Scott Lang: [in a mantra-like] Please, please, please, please... No, Cassie. [Lang looks at the engraved stone in shock, revealing his name in it.]

Scott Lang: What?

[Scott is now seen running across the memorial, then to his hometown, only to ring a doorbell at his house, bang on the door, and try opening the door, but is found locked. Then, he sees a feminine figure appear out of a hallway inside. The figure gets closer, revealing a woman in a purple sweater, with her hand pushing towards the glass door's window, and her face filled with amazement, as she unlocked the door. It was Lang's daughter, Cassie, now a grown-up teen since the last five years.]

[Cassie, who hasn't seen him for five years, holds up his face in an emotional sight and starts to smile tearfully. Lang does the same.]

SCOTT LANG: Cassie?

CASSIE LANG: Dad? [Both of them emotionally hug each other as both dad and daughter had reunited. Then Lang shoves her back, realizing that her daughter is now a full-grown teenager.]

SCOTT LANG: You're so big!

[Both dad and daughter share a hug once more.]

[The camera cuts to a sunset in San Francisco, showing a metal face with a sign saying in its headings, "RESTRICTED AREA, DO NOT ENTER" with the subtext, "AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY BEYOND THIS POINT, SECURITY ID OR ESCORT REQUIRED", then cuts to a scene inside the New Avengers facility, someone cutting the two bread with peanut butter filling into a couple of triangles, as someone else was speaking. The camera pans up to Romanoff, now having red, long hair, over-colouring her blonde streaks, hearing Rocket Raccoon out about his status so far.]

ROCKET: Yeah, we boarded that highly suspect warship Danvers pinged.

[The camera cuts showing a few of the Avengers in holographic calls from the left to right, respectively: Nebula and Rocket Raccoon, Okoye, Danvers with a tomboyish haircut, and Rhodes.]

NEBULA: It was an infectious garbage scowl.

ROCKET: So, thanks for the hot tip. [turns to Danvers and replies back with a smirk]

CAROL DANVERS: Well, you were closer.

ROCKET: Yeah. And now we smell like garbage.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: [turns to Okoye] You get a reading on those tremors?

OKOYE: It was a mild subduction under the African plate.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Do we have a visual? How are we handling it?

OKOYE: Nat, it's an earthquake under the ocean. We handle it by not handling it.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: [turns to Danvers] Carol, are we seeing you here next month?

CAROL DANVERS: Not likely.

ROCKET: What, you gonna get another haircut?

CAROL DANVERS: [irritated] Listen fur-face, I'm covering a lot of territory. The things that are happening on Earth, are happening everywhere, on thousands of planets.

ROCKET: [murmurs to himself] All right, all right, that's a good point. That's a good point.

CAROL DANVERS: So you might not see me for a long time.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Alright. Uh, well. This channel is always active. So, if anything goes sideways... anyone's making trouble where they shouldn't... comes through me.

[Okoye agrees in her language.]

ROCKET: Okay.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Alright.

[The Avengers cut off their calls one by one...]

CAROL DANVERS: [To Rhodey] Good luck. [cuts off call]

[Except for Rhodes. Nat sighs exhausted, and sits down, as she notices Rhodes still online in the call.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Where are you?

RHODEY: Mexico. The Federales found a room full of bodies. Looks like a bunch of cartel guys. Never even had the chance to get their guns off.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: It's probably a rival gang.

RHODEY: Except it isn't. (Nat realizes something.) It's definitely Barton. What he's done here, what he's been doing for the last few years... I mean, the scene that he left... (Nat starts to show signs of sadness as she gradually tears up.) I gotta tell you, there's a part of me that doesn't even want to find him.

(In an abrupt moment of silence, she tries to chew her tears and emotional feelings as she eats a sandwich.)

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Will you find out where he's going next?

RHODEY: Nat...

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Please.

RHODEY: [reluctantly] Okay. [then Rhodes cuts off his]

[Nat starts to cry as she tries to hold back her tears miserably.]

STEVE ROGERS: You know I'd offer to cook you dinner but you seem pretty miserable already. [Out of nowhere, Roger slumps over a bookshelf, in the same mood as he is in the therapy session, as Nat wipes off the tears off her face.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: You here to do your laundry?

STEVE ROGERS: And to see a friend.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Clearly, your friend is fine.

STEVE ROGERS: You know I saw a pod of whales when I was coming up the bridge.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: In the Hudson?

STEVE ROGERS: There's fewer ships, cleaner water.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: You know, if you're about to tell me to look on the bright side. Um... I'm about you to hit you in the head with a peanut butter sandwich. [jokingly smiles, as Rogers does the same]

STEVE ROGERS: Sorry. Force of habit. [Throws his jacket, then sits down on another chair, opposite Natasha.]

STEVE ROGERS: You know, I keep telling everybody they should move on and... grow. Some do. But not us.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: If I move on, who does this?

STEVE ROGERS: Maybe it doesn't need to be done.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: [Deep in her thoughts] I used to have nothing. And then I got this. This job... this family. And I was... I was better because of it. And even though... they're gone... I'm still trying to be better.

STEVE ROGERS: I think we both need to get a life.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: [Smiling] You first.

[A camera footage pops up in front of them, showing Scott Lang with his Quantum Realm Van behind him.]

Scott Lang: Oh! Hi. Hi! Is anyone home? This is Scott Lang. We met a few years ago, at the airport? In Germany? I got really big, and I had my mask on. You wouldn't recognize me.

STEVE ROGERS: [Standing up] Is this an old message?

NATASHA ROMANOFF: [Also standing up] It's the front gate.

SCOTT LANG: Ant-Man? Ant-Man, I know you know that. I need to talk to you guys.

[Cut to Scott inside the Avengers Compound, pacing worriedly in front of Steve and Natasha.]

STEVE ROGERS: Scott. Are you okay?

SCOTT LANG: Yeah. I'm fine.

[He struggles to ask about something. He finally blurts it out.]

SCOTT LANG: Have you ever studied Quantum Physics?

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Only to make conversation.

SCOTT LANG: Alright. So... five years ago, right before Thanos, I was in a place called the Quantum Realm. The Quantum Realm is like its own microscopic universe. To get in there, you have to be incredibly small. Hope, she's my... She was my... [struggling to not tell the entire truth about their relationship] She was supposed to pull me out. And then Thanos happened, and I got stuck in there.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: I'm sorry. That must've been a very long five years.

SCOTT LANG: Yeah, but that's just it. It wasn't. For me, it was five hours.

[Steve and Nat share a quick bewildered glance.]

SCOTT LANG: See, the rules of the Quantum Realm aren't like they are up here. Everything is unpredictable. Is that anybody's sandwich? I'm starving.

[He strides over to pick up Nat's sandwich, and bites into it.]

STEVE ROGERS: Scott, what are you talking about?

SCOTT LANG: What I'm saying is, time works differently in the Quantum Realm. The only problem is right now, we don't have a way to navigate it. But what if we did? I can't stop thinking about it. What if, we could somehow control the chaos, and we could navigate it? What if there was a way to enter the Quantum Realm at a certain point in time but then exit at another point in time? Like... Like before Thanos.

STEVE ROGERS: Wait, are you talking about a time machine?

SCOTT LANG: No. No, of course not. No, not a time machine. It's more like a... Yeah, a time machine. I know it's crazy. But I can't stop thinking about it. There's gotta be some way... There's gotta be...some w... it's crazy.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Scott, I get e-mails from a raccoon, so nothing sounds crazy anymore.

SCOTT LANG: So who do we talk to about this?

[We cut to a cabin in the woods, at the bank of a lake. We see Tony Stark sitting outside what looks like a tiny shed.]

TONY STARK: [Clapping his hand in a famous beat. Clap! Clap! Clap-Clap-Clap! Clap-Clap-Clap-Clap!] Chow time! [He seems to be speaking to someone unknown by the audience.] Maguna? Morgan H. Stark. You want some lunch?

MORGAN STARK: Define lunch or be disintegrated. [She puts on a silver and blue helmet similar to Iron Man's]

(A girl with long dark hair walks out in front of Tony. This is Morgan Stark, Tony and Pepper's daughter. She looks to be about 3 & 4 years of age.)

TONY STARK: Okay, You should not be wearing that, okay? That is part of a special anniversary gift I'm making for Mom. (Takes the helmet off Morgan's head. She emerges out smiling mischievously.)

MORGAN STARK: Okay.

TONY STARK: There you go. Are you thinking about lunch? I can give you a handful of crickets on a bed of lettuce.

MORGAN STARK: No.

TONY STARK: That's what you want. How did you find this?

MORGAN STARK: Garage.

TONY STARK: Really? Were you looking for it?

MORGAN STARK: No. I found it, though.

TONY STARK: You like going to the garage, huh? So does daddy. It's fine, actually. Your mom never wears anything I buy her.

(They start walking towards the house, but Tony notices a black Audi pulling coming to a stop a few meters away. Steve, Nat, and Scott get out of the car. Tony sighs. He is not looking forward to the discussion about to take place.)

SCOTT LANG: (Cut to after Scott's plan has been explained to Tony) Now, we know what it sounds like...

STEVE ROGERS: Tony, after everything you've seen, is anything really impossible?

TONY STARK: Quantum fluctuation messes with the Planck Scale, which then triggers the Deutsch Proposition. Can we agree on that?

(Scott, Steve and Nat all look puzzled. Science is barely any of their fields.)

STEVE ROGERS: (Tony giving a drink to him.) Thank you.

TONY STARK: In Layman's terms, it means you're not coming home.

SCOTT LANG: I did.

TONY STARK: No, you accidentally survived. It's a billion to one cosmic fluke. And now you wanna pull off a... What do you call it?

SCOTT LANG: (Trying to hide his pride) A time heist?

TONY STARK: Yeah, a time heist. Of course, why didn't we think of this before? Oh, because it's laughable? Because it's a pipedream?

SCOTT LANG: The Stones are in the past. We can go back and get them.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: We can snap our own fingers. We can bring everyone back.

TONY STARK: Or screw it up worse than he already has, right?

STEVE ROGERS: I don't believe we would.

TONY STARK: Gotta say, sometimes I miss that giddy optimism. However, high hopes won't help if there's no logical, tangible way for me to safely execute said time heist. I believe the most likely outcome would be our collective demise.

SCOTT LANG: Not if we strictly follow the rules of time travel. That means no talking to our past selves, no betting on sporting events -

TONY STARK: I'm gonna stop you right there, Scott. Are you seriously telling me that your plan to save the universe is based on Back To The Future?

SCOTT LANG: [embarrassed] No.

TONY STARK: Good. You had me worried there. 'Cause that'd be horse shit. That's not how quantum physics works.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Tony... We have to take a stand.

TONY STARK: We did stand. And yet, here we are.

SCOTT LANG: I know you got a lot on the line. You got a wife, a daughter. But I lost someone very important to me. A lot of people did. [His voice gets louder as he tries to sell his desperation to Tony.] And now, now we have a chance to bring her back. To bring everyone back. And you're telling me that won't even...

TONY STARK: That's right, Scott, I won't even. I got a kid.

[Morgan runs to her dad, who picks her up.]

MORGAN STARK: Mommy told me to come and save you.

TONY STARK: Good job. I'm saved. [Turning to face Cap, Nat and Scott.] I wish you'd come here to ask me something else. Anything else. Honestly, I... I missed you guys, it was... Oh, and table's set for six.

STEVE ROGERS: Tony, I get it. And I'm happy for you, I really am. But this is a second chance.

TONY STARK: I got my second chance right here, Cap. I can't roll the dice again. If you don't talk shop, you can stay for lunch.

[We see Cap, Nat and Scott walking back to their car outside Tony's house.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: He's scared.

STEVE ROGERS: He's not wrong.

SCOTT LANG: Yeah, but I mean, what are we gonna do? We need him. What, are we gonna stop?

STEVE ROGERS: No, I wanna do it right. We're gonna need a really big brain.

SCOTT LANG: (Incredulous, pointing to Tony's house) Bigger than his?

[Cut to a cafe somewhere, we see Bruce Banner, but not the same one that we remember. He looks more... Professor Smart Hulk.]

BRUCE BANNER: Come on, I feel like I'm the only one eating. [Pushing a plate forward] Try some of that. Have some eggs.

SCOTT LANG: I'm so confused.

BRUCE BANNER: [seriously] These are confusing times.

SCOTT LANG: Right. No, no, that's not what I meant.

BRUCE BANNER: [dropping the act] No, I get it. I'm kidding! I know. It's crazy. I'm wearing shirts now.

SCOTT LANG: Yeah! Wh...How? Why?

BRUCE BANNER: Five years ago, we got our asses beaten. Except it was worse for me. Because I lost twice. First, Hulk lost, then Banner lost. Then, we all lost.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: No one blamed you, Bruce.

BRUCE BANNER: I did. For years, I've been treating the Hulk like he's some kind of disease, something to get rid of. But then I started looking at him as the cure. Eighteen months in a gamma lab. I put the brains and the brawn together. And now look at me. Best of both worlds...

[Three children behind Bruce walk up to him tentatively]

GIRL: Excuse me, Mr. Hulk?

BRUCE BANNER: Yes?

GIRL: Can we get a photo?

BRUCE BANNER: 100%, little person. Come on, step up. [Holding out the phone to Scott] You mind?

SCOTT LANG: Oh, yeah.

BRUCE BANNER: Thanks, [To the Children] Say "green"! [The children and Bruce say Green as Scott snaps the photo.]

BRUCE BANNER: Did you get that?

SCOTT LANG: [leaning forward to hand back the phone] Don't you wanna grab one with me? I'm Ant-Man.

SCOTT LANG: They're Hulk fans, they don't know Ant-Man. Nobody does.

BRUCE BANNER: Wait, no, no, he feels bad. No, he wants you to...he wants to...[to one of the boys] You want to take a picture with him, right? [The boy shakes his head vigorously.]

BOY: Stranger Danger.

SCOTT LANG: He's even saying no he doesn't. I get it. I don't want it either.

BRUCE BANNER: But, come on, the kid! But he...but you...

SCOTT LANG: I don't want a picture with them.

BRUCE BANNER: [To the children] He's gonna feel bad. [To Scott] Sorry. They said they'd do it.

SCOTT LANG: I don't want it anymore.

BRUCE BANNER: No, no...you feel bad.

SCOTT LANG: Just take the goddamn phone.

[Maybe next time, Scott.]

GIRL: Thank you, Mr. Hulk.

BRUCE BANNER: No, it's great kids. Thank you very much. [Same time with kids] Hulk out!

STEVE ROGERS: Bruce.

BRUCE BANNER: [Awkwardly] Dab!

STEVE ROGERS: Bruce.

BRUCE BANNER: Listen to your Mom. She knows better.

STEVE ROGERS: About we were saying...

BRUCE BANNER: Right. The whole time travel do-over? Guys, it's outside my area of expertise.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Well, you pulled this off. I remember a time when that seemed pretty impossible time, too.

[The scene cuts to Tony Stark in the kitchen washing dishes after dinner. As he finishes the last of them, stumbles upon a photo of both Stark and Parker, with Parker holding his Stark Internship certificate. Tony finally knows what he's fighting for.]

[Cut to Tony talking to his computer, generating a holographic model of something he's working on.]

TONY STARK: Look at a mod inspiration, let me see what check out. So, recommend one last sim before we pack it in for the night. This time, in the shape of a mobius strip, inverted, please.

F.R.I.D.A.Y: Processing...

TONY STARK: Give me that eigenvalue. That, particle factoring, and a spectral decomp. That will take a second.

F.R.I.D.A.Y: Just a moment.

TONY STARK: And don't worry if it doesn't pan out. I'm just kinda -

F.R.I.D.A.Y: Model rendered.

[In a complete shock of amazement, the render comes back as 99.987% successful. Tony falls back, bewildered by this discovery.]

TONY STARK: Shit!

MORGAN STARK: Shit.

[Morgan, who has been hiding behind him all this time, giggles as she repeats the word Tony just uttered.]

TONY STARK: [Whispering] What are you doing up, little mess?

MORGAN STARK: Shit.

TONY STARK: No, we don't say that. Only Mommy says that word. She coined it, it belongs to her.

MORGAN STARK: Why you up?

TONY STARK: 'Cause I got some important shit going on here. [Morgan gives Tony a taste of the incredulous] What do you think? No, I got something on my mind. I got something on my mind.

MORGAN STARK: Was it Juice Pops?

TONY STARK: Sure was. That's extortion. Great minds think alike. Juice Pops, exactly was on... [Looks back to the model, Then turns back] my mind.

[In Morgan's room]

TONY STARK: You done? Yeah, now you are. [Tony wipes Morgan's lips and pushes her head onto her pillow] That face goes there.

MORGAN STARK: Tell me a story.

TONY STARK: A story... Once upon a time, Maguna went to bed. The end.

MORGAN STARK: [Giggling] That's a horrible story.

TONY STARK: Come on, that's your favorite story. I love you tons. [Kisses Morgan on the forehead.]

MORGAN STARK: I love you 3000.

TONY STARK: [Silently] Wow. [Turns off the lamp] 3000. That's crazy. [Closed the door] Go to bed. Or I'll sell all your toys. Night, night.

[Cut to the living room where Pepper is reading a book sitting on the couch. Tony paces in front of the fireplace.]

TONY STARK: Not that it's a competition, but she loves me 3000. You were somewhere on the low 6 to 900 range. [Pepper scoffs]

TONY STARK: [Absentmindedly] What are you reading?

PEPPER POTTS: Oh, it's just a book on composting.

TONY STARK: [Still absentmindedly] What's new with composting?

PEPPER POTTS: Just -

TONY STARK: I figured it out, by the way.

PEPPER POTTS: You know, just so we're talking about the same thing -

TONY STARK: Time travel.

PEPPER POTTS: [Amazed] What? Wow... That's amazing, and... terrifying.

TONY STARK: That's right.

PEPPER POTTS: We got really lucky.

TONY STARK: Yeah, I know.

PEPPER POTTS: A lot of people didn't.

TONY STARK: No, I can't help everybody.

PEPPER POTTS: It sort a seems like you can.

TONY STARK: Not if I stop. I can put a pin in it right now, and stop.

PEPPER POTTS: Tony, trying to get you to stop has been one of the few failures of my life.

[Tony smiles]

TONY STARK: I sometimes feel I should put it in a locked box and drop it at the bottom of a lake... go to bed.

PEPPER POTTS: But would you be able to rest?

[Cut to a lab in the Avengers Compound, we see Bruce fiddling with buttons on a panel. Scott is in his Ant-Man costume in front of his van, with the back open to show the Quantum Tunnel. Nat and Steve are beside Bruce]

BRUCE BANNER: Okay, here we go. Time travel test number one. Scott, fire up the uhhh... the van thing.

[Scott opens the portal]

STEVE ROGERS: Breakers are set, emergency generators are on standby.

BRUCE BANNER: Good. 'Cause if we blow the grid, I don't wanna lose Tiny here in the 1950's. [Scott, Nat and Cap give Bruce a panicked look]

SCOTT LANG: Excuse me?

NATASHA ROMANOFF: He's kidding. [In a hushed tone to Bruce] You can't say things like that!

BRUCE BANNER: Just... It was a bad joke.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: You were kidding, right?

BRUCE BANNER: [Whispering to Nat] I have no idea. We're talking about time travel here. Either it's all a joke, or none of it is. [Loudly and gives Scott a thumbs up] We're good! Get your helmet on, Scott. I'm gonna send you back a week, let you walk around for an hour, then bring you back in 10 seconds. Makes sense?

SCOTT LANG: Perfectly not confusing

STEVE ROGERS: Good luck, Scott. You got this.

SCOTT LANG: You're right. I do, Captain America.

[Bruce presses a button, and Scott disappears into the Quantum Tunnel.]

BRUCE BANNER: On the count of three. 3... 2... 1!

[Bruce presses a button, and someone in the Ant-Man suit comes back. A teenager in appears out of it.]

TEEN SCOTT LANG: Uh, guys? This...this doesn't feel right.

STEVE ROGERS: What is this?

BRUCE BANNER: What's going on?

NATASHA ROMANOFF: That...who is that?

[He pushes another couple of buttons, trying to fix the problem.] 

BRUCE BANNER: Hold on. [Panicking]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Is that Scott?

TEEN SCOTT LANG: Yes, it's Scott!

[Teen Scott gets sucked in back into the quantum tunnel, and it appears to be an old man in the Ant-Man suit.]

OLD SCOTT LANG: Ow! My back!

STEVE ROGERS: What is this?

BRUCE BANNER: Can I get a little space here.

STEVE ROGERS: Yeah yeah. Can you bring him back?

BRUCE BANNER: I'm working on it! [Tapping the side of the button pad, trying to pull back Scott]

[After a moment, another person appears in front of them. This time, it's a baby in the Ant-Man suit.]

STEVE ROGERS: It's a baby. [seriously?]

BRUCE BANNER: It's Scott.

STEVE ROGERS: As a baby!

BRUCE BANNER: He'll grow.

STEVE ROGERS: Bring Scott back!

BRUCE BANNER: [motioning to Nat] When I say kill the power, kill the power.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Oh my god. [rapidly walk near to the generator]

BRUCE BANNER: And... Kill it!

[Nat pulls down a lever, and everything shuts down. Scott, the normal Scott, gets spewed back out again.]

SCOTT LANG: Somebody peed my pants.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Oh thank god.

SCOTT LANG: But I don't know if it was "baby" me or "old" me...Or just "me" me.

BRUCE BANNER: [holds up his his hands in a dramatic way] Time travel!

[Steve says nothing. He simply shakes his head and walks away]

BRUCE BANNER: What? I..I see this as an absolute win!

[We cut to see Steve sitting outside the Avengers Compound, staring at the floor, deep in thought. He looks beat, the only possibility of victory now not an opportunity. He looks up as a deafening noise breaks the silence in the distance. As he looks, we see an Audi R8 speeding towards the entrance. The car pulls over to Cap, but goes a bit too far, then reverses to Cap. We see Tony Stark roll down the window and look at Cap.]

TONY STARK: Why the long face? Let me guess: He turned into a baby.

STEVE ROGERS: Among other things, yeah. What are you doing here?

[He gets out of the car, and walks around to the back.]

TONY STARK: [Ignoring Steve's question] That's the EPR Paradox. Instead of pushing Lang through time, you might've wound up pushing time through Lang. It's tricky. Dangerous. Somebody should've cautioned you against it.

STEVE ROGERS: You did.

TONY STARK: Oh, did I? [acting like he did not; there's the Tony we know] Thank God I'm here. Regardless, I fixed it. [He holds up his right hand, with a device on it] A fully functioning Time-Space GPS. I just want peace. [Makes peace sign with his fingers] Turns out, resentment is corrosive, and I hate it.

STEVE ROGERS: Me too.

TONY STARK: We got a shot at getting these stones, but I gotta tell you my priorities: Bring back what we lost? I hope, yes. Keep what I got? I have to, at all costs. And... maybe not die trying will be nice.

STEVE ROGERS: Sounds like a deal. [Steve reaches out his hand to shake in the deal, in which Tony replies in the same way.] 

[Tony reaches back into his trunk to pull something else out, Captain America's Shield. He makes to give it to Steve, who hesitates.]

STEVE ROGERS: Tony...

TONY STARK: Why? He made it for you. [referring to Howard Stark] Plus, honestly I have to get it out of the garage before Morgan takes it sledding.

[Steve fits his arm into the shield.]

STEVE ROGERS: Thank you, Tony.

TONY STARK: Will you keep that a little quiet? Didn't bring one for the whole team. [Hesitates] ...We are getting the whole team, yeah?

STEVE ROGERS: We're working on that right now.

[Cut to the Benatar landing in the yard of the Avenger's Compound. Scott is sitting having a Taco and some Nachos at a bench, and everything falls out of the taco as the Benatar lands. Nebula and Rocket walk out of the ship, and past Scott.]

ROCKET: Hey, humie! Where's Big Green?

SCOTT LANG: Uh, Kitchen, I think. [To himself as he sees Nebula] That's awesome.

NEBULA: [into an earpiece] Rhodey, careful on re-entry. There's an idiot on the landing zone.

[She walks away. Moments later, just as Scott is getting back to his senses, Rhodey lands right in front of him without warning. This time Scott is so surprised, he drops the whole taco.]

SCOTT LANG: Oh, God!

RHODEY: What's up, regular sized man?

[As Rhodey walks away, Bruce walks out of the Compound. Seeing that Scott dropped his lunch, he hands two tacos from his own lunch to Scott. Scott takes it while giving Bruce a puzzling look at this act of kindness.]

[Song "My Supersonic Ship" plays in the background. Cut to Bruce sitting at the back of a Utility car as they traverse the green countryside of Norway. They pass a sign labelled "WELCOME TO NEW ASGARD, PLEASE DRIVE SLOWLY.". They stop at a small town on a port. Bruce and Rocket get out of the car, and look around at the remaining Asgardians, living like normal humans at a port.]

ROCKET: Kind of a step down from a golden palace and magic hammers and whatnot.

BRUCE BANNER: Hey, have a little compassion, pal. First they've lost Asgard, then half the people. They're probably just happy to have a home. [Bruce spots Valkyrie looking over at him, and heads over to her.]

VALKYRIE: You shouldn't have come!

BRUCE BANNER: Ah, Valkyrie! Great to see you, Angry Girl.

VALKYRIE: [Noticing Bruce's change of appearance] I think I liked you better either of the other ways.

BRUCE BANNER: [motioning to Rocket] This is Rocket.

ROCKET: How you doin'?

VALKYRIE: [Eyeing Rocket] He won't see you.

BRUCE BANNER: That bad, huh?

VALKYRIE: We only see him once a month, when he comes for... [looking over to a pile of kegs of stout and other beer on the side] ... supplies.

BRUCE BANNER: It's that bad.

VALKYRIE: Yeah.

[Cut to Rocket opening a door, and him and Bruce walking through it.]

ROCKET: [Grimacing at the smell] What the...  Woo! Something died in here.

BRUCE BANNER: Hello? Thor?

THOR: [From another room.] Are you here about the cable?

[He walks into view, and the audience's jaw drops. Thor, who is shirtless, has definitely put on more than a couple of pounds since we saw him last.]

THOR: The Cinemax ran out about two weeks ago, and the sports were all kind of fuzzy. [He grabs a beer]

BRUCE BANNER: Thor?

[He notices Bruce and Rocket standing there. He cracks into joy.] BOYS! Oh my God! Its so to see you! [To Rocket, trying to hug him] Come here, you little rascal! [growling]

ROCKET: No, I'm good. I'm good. That's not necessary.

THOR: Hulk, you know my friends, Miek, Korg, right?

[We see Miek and Korg sitting on a couch, PlayStation controller in hand, playing Fortnite and eating chips.]

KORG: Hey boys!

BRUCE BANNER: Hey guys, long time no see.

KORG: Beer's on the bucket. Feel free to log on to the Wi-Fi. No password, obviously. [He goes back to his game.] Thor, he's back. The kid on the TV that called me a dickhead again.

THOR: NoobMaster.

KORG: Yeah, NoobMaster69 called me a dickhead.

[Thor walks over to Korg, takes his headphones, and speaks into the mic.]

THOR: NoobMaster. Hey, it's Thor again. You know, the God of Thunder? Listen, buddy. If you don't log off this game immediately, I'm gonna fly over to your house, come down to that basement you're hiding in, rip off your arms and SHOVE THEM UP YOUR BUTT! Oh, that's right, go cry to your father, you little weasel!

KORG: [Thor brings his headphones back] Thank you, Thor.

THOR: Let me know if he bothers you again, okay?

KORG: Thank you very much. I will.

THOR: So you guys want a drink? What are you drinking? We have beer, tequila, all sorts of things.

[Thor uses Stormbreaker to open a bottle of beer and starts drinking. Bruce walks to him and places a hand on his shoulder]

BRUCE BANNER: Buddy, you all right?

THOR: ​​​​​​Yes, I'm fine! Why, don't I look all right?

ROCKET: [Concerned] You look like melted ice cream.

THOR: [Laughs] So, what's up?

BRUCE BANNER: We need your help. There might be a chance we could fix everything.

THOR: What, like the cable? [burps] Cause that's been driving me bananas for weeks.

BRUCE BANNER: Like Thanos.

[Thor's smile slowly disappears. He puts a shaky hand on Bruce's shoulder and points at him.]

THOR: Don't say that name.

[Korg stands up and takes off his headphones]

KORG: Um, yeah. We don't actually say that name in here.

BRUCE BANNER: [quietly] Please take your hand off me. [He brushes away Thor's hand] Now, I know that... guy might scare you.

THOR: Why would I be? Why would, why would I be scared of that guy? I'm the one who killed that guy, remember? Anyone else here killed that guy? Nope. Didn't think so. Korg, why don't you, tell everybody who chopped Thanos' big head off.

[Thor walks off screen]

KORG: Umm... Stormbreaker?

THOR: Now, who's swingin' Stormbreaker?

BRUCE BANNER: I get it. You're in a rough spot, okay? I've been there myself. You wanna know who helped me out of it?

THOR: I don't know. Is it... Natasha?

BRUCE BANNER: It was you. You helped me.

THOR: [walks over and looks out the window and points, still holding his beer] Why don't you ask the, Asgardians down there, how much my help was worth. [he drops onto the sofa] The ones that are left, anyway.

BRUCE BANNER: I think we can bring them back.

THOR: Stop. stop, okay? [opens a packet on M&Ms] I know you think I'm down here wallowing in my own self-pity, waiting to be rescued and and saved. But I'm fine, okay? We're fine, aren't we?

[The camera cuts to Korg and Miek eating pizza and playing once more]

KORG: Nah, all good here, mate.

[Cuts back to Thor]

THOR: So, whatever it is that you're offering, we're not into it, don't care, couldn't care less. Goodbye.

BRUCE BANNER: [from offscreen] We need you, pal.

[Thor shakes his head and ignores Bruce.]

ROCKET: [Crossing his arms] There's beer on the ship.

THOR: [pauses, but doesn't look up then puts the bottle down] What kind?

[SCREEN TITLE: TOKYO]

[After seeing a Quinjet flown to the capital, the scene cuts to a nightclub in the city of Tokyo, as the entertainment still intact, loads of dead bodies of yakuza members are seen as a hooded figure throws a shuriken at another yakuza member firing at him. They are shouting something in Japanese, as two more men come out of nowhere and draw out their UZIs.]

THUG #1: あいつだ! アキヒコさんを！(Romanized: Aitsu da! Akihiko-san wo!) (Translated: It's him! He's after Akihiko!)

[Both thugs fire their SMGs as both got slain by a shuriken. A yakuza member wielding a katana charges at him in the stairs, but is immediately overthrown and slain by the Ronin. Ronin then fights another sword-wielding thug, which is thrown outside the glass, killing him. The camera passes through two more buildings as the fighting ensues with different screams, shouts, more havoc inside, and gunfire. A man in a dark raincoat jumps through the glass window, with the Ronin doing the same, as both of them lands in a dark alleyway. The man in the raincoat turns to the Ronin, who just landed after him. It was Akihiko, the leader of a yakuza gang, whose head being hunted by the Ronin himself.]

AKIHIKO: てめえ なぜこんなことをする? 俺たちてめえになにもしてねぇだろ！(Romanized: Temē naze konna koto wo suru? Oretachi temē ni nani mo shitenē daro!) (English: Why are you doing this? We never did anything to you!)

RONIN: [As he draws out his katana and reversibly wields it.]地球の半分 サノスにやられた... お前はなぜ無事なの…(Romanized: Chikyū no hanbun sanosu ni yarareta... Omae wa naze buji nano...) (English: You survived... Half of the planet didn't. They got Thanos... you get me.)

[Both sides engaged in combat as Ronin pierces his stomach, but doing only minor damage to him.]

RONIN: [Also in Japanese] お前はもう十分殺しただろ(Romanized:Omae mo jūbun korshita daro) You're done hurting people.

AKIHIKO: [Japanese]俺らがだと? 気でも狂ったか! (Orera ga dato? Ki demo kurutta ka!) [he gestures to all the scattered bodies of his henchmen and chuckles] (English: WE hurt people? You're crazy!)

[Akihiko charges, which Ronin immediately blocks. Both clang swords for two seconds, seeming that the yakuza leader has the upper hand, but Ronin punches him in the face, and sword-points him to his throat, in which Akihiko is temporarily petrified.]

[He lowers down his sword as if he is about to surrender, but charges again at Ronin. Both swords clashed as Ronin slices his stomach, losing stamina, but gaining more strength from his rage.]

AKIHIKO: [in a Gatotsu-like sword stance] 死ね! (Romanized: Shine!) (English: DIE!)

[They both draw their katanas and the sword-fight continues. Ronin is clearly a better fighter, but Akihiko is also quite experienced. They clang swords, and for a second, it looks like Akihiko has the upper hand swinging at Ronin's neck. Ronin, however, ducks and slides under the katana, and slices Akihiko in the stomach as he slides past. Akihiko, now fatally injured, drops his katana.]

AKIHIKO: 待て! 助けてくれ! お前に何でもやる! 何が欲しい? (Romanized: Mate! Tasukete kure! Omae ni nan demo yaru! Nani ga hosī? (English: Wait! Help me! I'll give you anything! What do you want?)

RONIN: [Raising his katana, in English] What I want... You can't give me.

[He thrusts the blade downwards into Akihiko's stomach. The body of the Japanese falls to the ground. Ronin grabs the sword, and wipes it on his gauntlet, ridding it of the blood of Akihiko. He notices someone behind him, and grabs his mask, and slides it off his head, revealing himself as Clint Barton, who has gone on a rampage since the decimation. He turns around and looks at Nat, who is standing behind him, holding an umbrella, and in casual clothes.]

CLINT BARTON: You shouldn't be here.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Neither should you.

CLINT BARTON: I've got a job to do.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Is that what you're calling this? Killing all these people isn't gonna bring your family back.

[Clint starts to look emotional, on the verge of crying.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: We found something. A chance, maybe...

CLINT BARTON: [Now openly crying] Don't...

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Don't what?

CLINT BARTON: ...don't give me hope.

NATASHA: I'm sorry I couldn't give it to you sooner.

[We cut to the Avenger's Compound, where we see Thor in a hoodie, drinking a beer and walking through the compound's Testing Chamber. Tony is also there, walking in from behind Thor.]

TONY STARK: [To Thor] Drifting left. On the side there, Lebowski. [To Rocket, who's working on something underneath a glass platform] Ratchet, How's it going?

ROCKET: It's Rocket. Take it easy. You're only a genius on Earth, pal.

[Cut to a side room, where we see Scott, Bruce, Steve and Rhodey talking. Scott is in a white and red suit, similar to the Ant-Man suit.]

RHODEY: Time travel suit? Not bad.

SCOTT LANG: [Response to Hulk touching the suit and something red in a glass tube] Hey, hey, hey! Easy, easy!

BRUCE BANNER: I'm being very careful.

SCOTT LANG: No, you're being very Hulky.

BRUCE BANNER: I'm being careful.

SCOTT LANG: [Holding up the red glass bottle] These are Pym Particles, alright? And ever since Hank Pym got snapped out of existence, this is it. This is what we have. We're not making any more.

RHODEY: Scott, calm down.

SCOTT LANG: Sorry. We've got enough for one round trip each. That's it. No do-overs. Plus two test runs. [He accidentally presses a button, and shrinks, and then grows back to his normal size.] One test run.

[Cut to the testing chamber, where we see Steve, Nat, Tony, Scott, Bruce, Rhodey and Nebula standing at a control panel, presumably controlling the glass platform.]

SCOTT LANG: All right. I'm not ready for this.

CLINT BARTON: I'm game. I'll do it.

[Clint walks in wearing the suit Scott was moments before, the Quantum Suit.]

BRUCE BANNER: Clint, now you're gonna feel a little discombobulated from the chronoshift. Don't worry about it.

[Clint taking position on the platform] 

RHODEY: Wai-Wait a second, let me ask you something. If we can do this, you know, go back in time, why don't we just find baby Thanos, you know, and... [he makes a hand gesture suggesting that they strangle baby Thanos with a rope.]

BRUCE BANNER: [Disgusted] First of all, that's horrible...

RHODEY: [In a tone that says it's what we're all thinking.] It's Thanos.

BRUCE BANNER: ...And secondly, time doesn't work that way. Changing the past doesn't change the future.

SCOTT LANG: Look, we go back, we get the stones before Thanos gets them... Thanos doesn't have the stones. Problem solved.

CLINT BARTON: Bingo.

NEBULA: That's not how it works.

CLINT BARTON: Well, that's what I heard.

BRUCE BANNER: What? By who? Who told you that?

RHODEY: [counting with his fingers] Star Trek, Terminator, TimeCop, Time After Time -

SCOTT LANG: Quantum Leap -

RHODEY: A Wrinkle in Time, Somewhere in Time -

SCOTT LANG: Hot Tub Time Machine -

RHODEY: Hot Tub Time Machine. Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. Basically, any movie that deals with time travel.

SCOTT LANG: Die Hard? No, it's not one...

RHODEY: This is known.

BRUCE BANNER: I don't know why everyone believes that, but that isn't true. Think about it: If you travel to the past, that past becomes your future. And your former present becomes the past. Which can't now be changed by your new future...

NEBULA: Exactly.

SCOTT LANG: So... Back To The Future's a bunch of bullshit?

BRUCE BANNER: [Turning to Clint] Alright, Clint. We're going in 3... 2... 1!

[A helmet similar to Ant-Man's but white and more visible face pops on Clint's head, and he goes quantum. Clint flies through the quantum realm and into an opening. He grows back to normal size, but he's at a different place, and seemingly, time.]

[Clint look around his family home, which unlike at the start of the movie, looks a lot more alive. The helmet pops off of Clint's head, and he looks around bewildered. He sees a baseball glove on the ground, presumably belonging to one of his sons, and picks it up. We hear a noise from inside the house, someone who Clint hasn't seen for five years.]

LILA BARTON: [offscreen] Cooper? Where are my headphones?

CLINT BARTON: [murmuring] Lila? [The device on his hand starts beeping, signalling the end of this visit] Lila! [He dives for the door, but only manages to open it before he shrinks back to go back to the future.]

[We hear footsteps coming towards where Clint has just disappeared, and we see Lila coming down the stairs in Avril Lavigne-like clothing, looking around, puzzled]

LILA BARTON: Yeah, Dad? [She looks around] Dad?

[Lila goes back upstairs, deciding that it was just nothing]

[Cut to the Avengers Compound, we see Clint rematerialise on the glass platform, breathing heavily and sitting on the platform.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Hey, hey. Look at me. You okay?

CLINT BARTON: [Holding up the baseball glove and throw it to Stark] Yeah, it worked. It worked.

[Scene cuts to the Avengers in a room with some hologram displays, showcasing each of the six Infinity Stones, sitting around a table. Tony, Steve and Bruce are pacing at the front, clearly leading the planning of the mission.]

STEVE ROGERS: Okay, so the "how" works. Now we gotta figure out the when and the where. Almost all of us has had an encounter with at least one of the six Infinity Stones.

TONY STARK: Well I'd substitute the word encounter for damn well near been killed by one of the six Infinity Stones.

SCOTT LANG: I haven't, I don't even know what the hell you're all talking about

BRUCE BANNER: Regardless, we only have enough Pym Particles for one round trip each, and these stones have been in a lot of different places throughout history.

TONY STARK: Our history. So, not a lot of convenient spots to just drop in.

CLINT BARTON: Which means we have to pick our targets.

TONY STARK: Correct.

STEVE ROGERS: Let's start with the Aether. Thor, what do you know?

[We see Thor sitting on a chair with his sunglasses on. It is impossible to tell whether he is awake or asleep.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Is he asleep?

RHODEY: No, I'm pretty sure he's dead.

[Thor wakes up]

THOR: Where to start? Umm... The Aether, first, is not a stone, someone called it a stone before. It's more of a... an angry sludge thing, so... someones gonna need to amend that. Here's an interesting story though, many years ago... My grandfather had to hide the stones from the Dark Elves... [He wiggles his fingers to imitate a spooky ghost] Wooooh, scary beings. So Jane, [An image of Jane Foster pops up on the screen] Oh, there she is. That's Jane... She's... an old flame of mine... She... she stuck her hand inside a rock this one time... and then the Aether stuck itself inside her... And, she became very, very sick. So I had to take her to Asgard, which is where I'm from. And we had to try and fix her. We were dating at the time, you see. I got to introduce her to my Mother... who's dead, [Thor starts to look broken, and seems on the verge of tears] and oh you know, Jane and I aren't even dating anymore, these things happen though you know, nothing last forever, [Tony starts to push him back to his chair] I'm not done yet, the only thing permanent in life is impermanence.

TONY STARK: Awesome. Eggs? Breakfast?

THOR: I'd like a Bloody Mary, thank you.

[Cut to the Avengers sitting around a table, eating a meal, and Rocket is pacing on the table in front of everyone.]

ROCKET: Quill said he stole the Power Stone from Morag.

SCOTT LANG: Is that a person?

ROCKET: Morag's a planet. Quill was a person.

SCOTT LANG: A planet? Like in outer space?

ROCKET: Oh, look. It's like a little puppy, all happy and everything. [Imitating talking to a puppy] Do you wanna go to space? You wanna go to space, puppy? I'll get you to space.

[Cut to everyone facing Nebula in the planning room, and Nat writing notes for their plan.]

NEBULA: Thanos found the Soul Stone on Vormir.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: [In a business-like tone] What is Vormir?

NEBULA: A dominion of death, at the very center of Celestial existence. It's where... Thanos murdered my sister.

[Nat looks up, and an awkward silence falls upon the room. She writes what Nebula has just said, and Scott makes to break the awkward moment.]

SCOTT LANG: Not it.

[We see Tony and Nat lying on a table surrounded by papers, and Bruce lying down on the floor. The Time Stone pops up on the display.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: That Time Stone guy...

BRUCE BANNER: Doctor Strange.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Yeah, what kind of doctor was he?

TONY STARK: Ear-nose-throat meets rabbit from a hat.

BRUCE BANNER: Nice place in the village, though.

TONY STARK: Yeah. Sullivan Street.

BRUCE BANNER: Hmm... Bleecker.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Wait, he lived in New York?

TONY STARK: No. He lived in Toronto. Were you even paying attention?

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Guys, if you pick the right year, there are three stones in New York.

BRUCE BANNER: [Sitting up in surprise] Shut the front door.

[Shot cuts to the holograms displaying the different location, the Soul and Power Stones in space in 2014. the Reality Stone in Asgard, 2013; and the Space, Mind, and Time Stones in New York City, 2012]

STEVE ROGERS: All right. We have a plan. Six Stones, three teams. One shot.

[He and the other Avengers walk up and look at the screens determinedly.]

[The shot cuts to the Avengers walking in a file to the Quantum Time machine, wearing the Quantum Suits, albeit with some minor differences for different people. Rhodey has a bulkier repaint of the War machine armour. ]

STEVE ROGERS: Five years ago, we lost. All of us. We lost friends... We lost family... We lost a part of ourselves. Today, we have a chance to take it all back. You know your teams, you know your missions. Get the stones, get them back. One round trip each. No mistakes. No do-overs. Most of us are going somewhere we know. But it doesn't mean we should know what to expect. Be careful. Look out for each other. This is the fight of our lives. And we're gonna win. [Tony gives Steve a look] Whatever it takes. Good luck.

ROCKET:[Refers to Steve's speaking] He's pretty good at that.

SCOTT LANG: Right? [Looks very excited]

TONY STARK: All right. You heard the man. Stroke those keys, jolly green.

BRUCE BANNER: Tractors engaged.

ROCKET: [Addressing the shrunk Benatar in Clint's hand] You promise to bring that back in one piece, right?

CLINT BARTON: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. I'll do my best.

ROCKET: As promises go, that was pretty lame.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: [Smiling excitedly] See you in a minute.

[They all shrink and enter the Quantum Realm, and they all split at different intervals, going to a different place at a different time in history.]

[The First Group which has Tony, Steve, Bruce, & Scott; travels to New York in 2012. A previous stock shot of the Chitauri snarling and the iconic circle take around our six Original Avengers assembling before panning over to a side street where Scott, Steve, Banner and Tony materialise.]

STEVE ROGERS: All right, we all have our assignments. Two Stones uptown, one Stone, down. Stay low. Keep an eye on the clock.

[2012 Hulk passes by them, smashing everything in his way. Bruce puts his hand on his face, embarrassed.]

STEVE ROGERS: Feel free to smash a few things along the way.

BRUCE BANNER: I think it's gratuitous, but whatever.

[Present Bruce pretends to smash things in a sarcastic way. He tears his shirt off, and walks over to a car. He lightly punches the car, making a small dent, all the while making growling noises. He picks up a motorbike and throws it at a wall, wincing as it hits the wall.]

[Shot cuts to the Roof of the Sanctum Sanctorum where 2012 The Ancient One protects it. Bruce tries to enter through the roof before noticing her.]

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): I'd be careful going that way. We just had the floors waxed.

BRUCE BANNER: I'm looking for Doctor Strange.

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): You're about... five years too early. Stephen Strange is currently performing surgery about twenty blocks that way. What do you want from him?

BRUCE BANNER: That, actually.

[He points towards the Eye of Agamotto where the Time Stone is kept. The Ancient One (2012) looks at it]

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): Ah! I'm afraid not.

BRUCE BANNER: Sorry, but I wasn't asking.

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): You don't wanna do this.

BRUCE BANNER: Ah, you're right, I don't. [He makes a grab at the Eye of Agamotto] But I need that stone, and I don't have time to beat it-

[The Ancient One (2012) pushes Bruce' astral form out of his body. Bruce who's is now in astral form looks at The Ancient One horrified.]

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): Let's start over, shall we?

[Cut to an aerial shot of Asgard in 2013.Then to the prison in Asgard, where we see the Loki from The Dark World, sitting in his cell. Without him noticing, Rocket and Thor creep by, past the cell. They stop at a pillar a few metres away room of where Jane Foster is]

THOR: That's Jane.

ROCKET: All right. Here's the deal, Tubby: You're gonna charm her and I'm gonna poke her with this thing, [He holds up a device.] and extract the Reality Stone and get gone, lickety-split.

THOR: I'll be right back, okay? There's a wine cellar, that's just down there. My father used to have this huge barrel of Aakonian ale. I'll see if the scullery has a couple of to-go cups...

ROCKET: Hey! Hey! Aren't you drunk enough already?

[A door opens, Thor and Rocket both try to hide. We then see ladies along with Frigga (2013) walking. Thor sees his mother.]

ROCKET: Who's the fancy broad?

THOR: It's my Mother. She dies today.

ROCKET: Oh. That's today?

THOR: I can't do this. I can't do this. I shouldn't be here. I shouldn't have come.This was a bad idea.

ROCKET: Come here. [Standing in front of him]

THOR: No, no, no. I think I'm having...I'm having a panic attack. I shouldn't be here...this is...this is a bad-

ROCKET: Come here. Right here.

[Rocket slaps Thor in the face.]

ROCKET: You think you're the only one who lost people? What do you think we're doing here? I lost the only family I ever had. Quill, Groot, Drax, the chick with the antenna, all gone. Now, I get you miss your Mom. But she's gone. Really gone. And there are plenty of people who are only kinda gone. But you can help them. So is it too much to ask that you brush the crumbs outta your beard, make schmoopy talk to Pretty Pants, and when she's not looking, suck out the Infinity Stone and help me get my family back?

THOR: Okay.

ROCKET: Are you crying?

THOR: No...Yes!

ROCKET: Get it together! You can do this. You can do this. All right?

THOR: Yes, I can.

ROCKET: Good.

THOR: I can do this. I can do it, I can't do this.

[Thor runs away.]

ROCKET: Alright, Heartbreaker. She's alone. This is our shot. [He turns back to where Thor was moments ago] Thor? Thor! Aaagh!!!

[Cut to Morag in 2014, where we see Rhodey getting off the Benatar as it lands.]

RHODEY: Alright. Bring it down low. Right on that line. That's it. Down, down.

CLINT BARTON: Hey, can we hurry it up?

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Guys, chop-chop. Come on. We're on a clock.

[Nebula walks out of the ship, apparently having directed it to its next destination.

RHODEY: All that, is really helpful. [Hugging Natasha] Take care, okay?

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Yeah.

RHODEY: Take that stone and come back. No messing around.

CLINT BARTON: [To Rhodey] Hey. You got this.

RHODEY: Let's get it done. Yes, sir.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: [Walking with Clint back into the ship] See you back.

RHODEY: You guys watch each other's six.

[Clint and Nat look back and just smile.]

CLINT BARTON: Yeah.

[They walk back into the ship, and the hatch closes. The ship takes off and speeds out of the atmosphere of Morag.]

NEBULA: The coordinates for Vormir are laid in. All they have to do is not fall out.

[In the Benatar, Clint and Nat are sitting at the front of the ship. The ship takes a jump through space and speeds up tremendously. Nat and Clint look at each other.]

CLINT BARTON: It's a long way from Budapest.

[Natasha just laughs.]

[Back to Morag, where Rhodey and Nebula are standing where we left them.]

RHODEY: Okay, so, uhh... We just wait around for this Quill guy to show up and then he leads us to the Power Stone, is that it?

NEBULA: [Looking around] Let's take cover. We're not the only ones in 2014 looking for the stones.

RHODEY: Wait a minute, what are you talking about right now? Who else is looking for these stones?

NEBULA: My father, my sister... and me.

RHODEY: And you? Where are you right now?

[Cuts to a scene of Gamora (2014) and Nebula (2014) fighting some Korbinite soldiers.]

GAMORA (2014): [Helping Nebula up] You're welcome.

NEBULA (2014): I didn't ask for your help.

GAMORA (2014): And yet, you always need it. [Nebula (2014) laughs and Gamora's hand.] Get up. Father wants us back on the ship.

NEBULA (2014): Why?

GAMORA (2014): He's found an Infinity Stone.

NEBULA (2014): Where?

GAMORA (2014): On a planet called Morag.

NEBULA (2014): Father's plan is finally in motion.

GAMORA (2014): One stone isn't six, Nebula.

NEBULA (2014): It’s a start.

GAMORA (2014): If he gets all of them...

[Thanos (2014) arrives, honking badass double-bladed sword in tow and healthy coating blood of his armour.]

THANOS (2014): Ronan's located the Power Stone. I'm dispatching you to his ship.

GAMORA (2014): He won't like that.

THANOS (2014): His alternative is death, then. [Thanos wipes his double-bladed sword] Ronan's obsession clouds his judgement.

NEBULA (2014): We will not fail you, Father.

[Gamora (2014) rolls her eyes]

THANOS (2014): No, you won't.

NEBULA (2014): I swear...I will make you proud.

[Nebula (2014) is suddenly in pain and opens up future Nebula's memories.]

RHODEY (Memory): We just, wait around for this Quill guy to show up, and then he leads us to the Power Stone, is that it?

NEBULA (Memory): Let's take cover. We're not the only ones in 2014 looking for the stones.

[Nebula (2014) shuts off the memory]

GAMORA (2014): Who was that?

NEBULA (2014): I don't know...My head is splitting...I don't know...

GAMORA (2014): Her synaptic drive was probably damaged in battle.

[Thanos walks towards Nebula and brings his blade to her throat.]

THANOS (2014): Shhh... (pointing to Nebula) Bring her to my ship.

[Cut to present Tony Stark flying around Stark Tower in the Mark 85. He scans the interior of the tower, and sees the original Avengers apprehending Loki, the backside of the iconic shot of Hawkeye pointing the bow at Loki's face while the Avengers surround him.]

TONY STARK: Got to hustle, Cap. Things look like they're just about wrapped up here.

[Cut to Steve in Stark Tower, walking towards the elevator.]

STEVE ROGERS: Got it. I'm approaching the elevator now.

LOKI (2012): If it's all the same to you... I'll have that drink now.

TONY STARK (2012): All right, get him on his feet. We can all stand around posing up a storm later. By the way, feel free to clean up.

TONY STARK: Uh, Mr. Rogers. I almost forgot that that suit [A shot of Cap walking around in his 2012 suit] did nothing for your ass.

STEVE ROGERS: No one asked you to look, Tony.

TONY STARK: [whispers] It's ridiculous

SCOTT LANG: I think you look great, Cap. As far as I'm concerned, that's America's ass. [Does a patriotic salute.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF (2012): Who gets the, uh, magic wand?

TONY STARK (2012): STRIKE team's coming to secure it.

[A Hydra team including Rumlow and Sitwell enter, known at this time as a part of SHIELD.]

SITWELL (2012): We can take that [Taking Loki's Scepter from 2012 Natasha] off your hands.

NATASHA ROMANOFF (2012): By all means. Careful with that thing.

CLINT BARTON (2012): Unless you want your mind erased. And not in a fun way.

SITWELL (2012): We promise to be careful.

SCOTT LANG: Who are these guys?

TONY STARK: They are SHIELD...Well, actually Hydra. But, we didn't know that yet.

SCOTT LANG: Seriously, you didn't? I mean...they look like bad guys.

TONY STARK: You're small, but you're talking loud.

STEVE ROGERS (2012): On my way down to coordinate search and rescue.

LOKI (2012): [Transforming into Steve for a second in imitation] On my way down to coordinate search and rescue! [Transforming back] I mean, honestly! How do you think you'll be...

THOR (2012): [Slapping on a device on Loki's mouth to make him quiet] Shut up.

TONY STARK: All right, you're up, little buddy. [Looking at the briefcase with the Tesseract] There's our stone.

SCOTT LANG: [Lying down on Tony's shoulder] Alright. Flick me.

[Tony flicks Scott onto his 2012 self, right into his beard. 2012 Tony then scratches his beard, dropping present Scott onto 2012 Tony's reactor.] 

[All of the 2012 Avengers get in an elevator. Hulk makes to follow, but finds the elevator full.]

HULK (2012): Move.

THOR (2012): Whoa!

TONY STARK (2012): Whoa, whoa. Hey! Buddy. What do you think? Maximum occupancy has been reached.

THOR (2012): Take the stairs.

TONY STARK (2012): Yeah. [Hulk draws his fist back right as the elevator door closes] Stop. Stop!

[He follows through with the punch, making a dent in the wall right where the door was.]

HULK (2012): [Pissed] Take the stairs! Hate the stairs!

TONY STARK: All right, Cap. I got our scepter in the elevator just passing the 80th floor.

STEVE ROGERS: On it. Head to the lobby.

TONY STARK: Alright. I'll see you there.

[scene cuts to HYDRA agents in the elevator]

SITWELL (2012): Evidence secure. We're en route to Dr. List. No. No hitches at all, Mr. Secretary.

[Elevator opens and HYDRA agents sees Steve. Steve walks in and hits the button to continue down.]

SITWELL (2012): Captain. I thought you were coordinating search and rescue?

STEVE ROGERS: Change of plans.

RUMLOW (2012): Hey, Cap.

STEVE ROGERS: Rumlow. [everyone starts getting suspicious and has their guard up] I just got a call from the Secretary. I'm gonna be running point on the scepter.

SITWELL (2012): Sir? I don't understand.

STEVE ROGERS: We got word there may be an attempt to steal it.

RUMLOW (2012): Sorry, Cap. I can't give you the scepter.

SITWELL (2012): I'm gonna have to call the Director.

STEVE ROGERS: That's okay. Trust me. [Steve leans over to Sitwell's ear.] Hail Hydra.

[Everyone is surprised, Steve walks out of the elevator with the scepter and a smile.]

[Cut to the building's stairwell. The Hulk looks down at the many stairs below him.]

HULK (2012): [Angrily] So many stairs!

[Cut to the lobby. The 2012 Avengers start to make their way out of the building. Tony and Scott eye them undercover.]

TONY STARK: Thumbelina, do you copy? I've got eyes on the prize. It's go-time.

SCOTT LANG: Bombs away. [Sliding down to Tony's Arc Reactor] Is... is that Axe body spray?

TONY STARK: Yeah, I had a can just for emergencies. Relax. Can we focus, please?

SCOTT LANG: I'm going inside you. Now.

ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): May I ask you where you're going?

THOR (2012): To lunch and then Asgard. I'm sorry, you are?

TONY STARK (2012): Alexander Pierce. He's the man, one of the folks behind Nick Fury.

ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): My friends call me Mr. Secretary. I'm gonna have to ask you to turn that prisoner over to me.

THOR (2012): Loki will be answering to Odin himself.

ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): Oh, he's gonna answer to us. Odin can have what's left. And I'm gonna need that case, that's been SHIELD property for over 70 years.

HYDRA AGENT: Hand over the case, Stark.

TONY STARK: [To present Scott through radio as he inhales sharply] All right, move it, Stuart Little. Things are getting dicey up here. Let's go.

TONY STARK(2012): I'm not gonna argue who's got the higher authority here, all right?

SCOTT LANG: You promise me you won't die?

TONY STARK: You're only giving me a mild cardiac dysrhythmia.

SCOTT LANG: That doesn't sound mild.

ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): I need the case.

TONY STARK (2012): I know you got a lotta pull. I'm just saying...

ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): Okay. Then give me the case.

TONY STARK: Do it, Lang!

TONY STARK (2012): Get your hands off!

TONY STARK: Window's closing. Pull my pin!

SCOTT LANG: Here goes!

[Ant-Man pulls off Stark 2012's reactor, and Tony (2012) drops the case]

ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): Stark?

THOR (2012): Stark!

[Stark 2012 falls down to the ground]

ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): Look, he's convulsing. Give him air! Medic!

TONY STARK: MEDIC! You guys, some help!

ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): Stark, you--- your chest machine?

[Ant-Man pushes the case, Loki looks at case, Tony Stark grabs the case.]

TONY STARK: Good job. Meet me in the alley. I'm gonna grab a quick slice.

[Suddenly, Hulk 2012 pushes Tony to the ground and the Tesseract slides to Loki]

HULK (2012): NO STAIRS!!!!

[Everyone runs from Hulk's rampage, Loki 2012 grabs the Tesseract and teleports it away.]

THOR (2012): You'll be fine, Stark. Stay with us! I'll try something, okay? I have no idea if it's gonna work.

[Thor 2012 uses the Mjolnir as the defibrillator on Tony Stark 2012]

THOR (2012): YES!

TONY STARK (2012): That worked a treat. That was so crazy!

THOR (2012): I had no idea if that was gonna work.

TONY STARK (2012): The case?

THOR (2012): The case. It's, uhh... Where's the case? Where's Loki? Loki!

SCOTT LANG: That wasn't supposed to happen, was it?

TONY STARK: Oh, we blew it.

THOR (2012): Loki!?

[Cut to a walkway several floors up. Steve is having trouble on his communicator.]

STEVE ROGERS: Tony, what's going on? Tell me you found that cube. [He looks up and groans.] Oh, you gotta be shitting me.

[In front of him, Steve sees his 2012 self looking back]

STEVE ROGERS (2012): I have eyes on Loki. 14th floor.

STEVE ROGERS: [Puts the case down] I'm not Loki. And I don't wanna hurt you.

[2012 Steve engages and the two Captain Americas begin to duel.]

STEVE ROGERS (2012): I can do this all day.

STEVE ROGERS: [Standing up] Yeah, I know. I know.

[Both Rogers' frisbee their shield's at one another which clang away as they brawl, inadvertently kicking away the case containing the scepter which falls down a few levels. 2012 Steve gets the upper hand on Future Steve's as they both fall down to the same level as the scepter. Future Steve's locket of Peggy falls out, Steve (2012) notices it.]

STEVE ROGERS (2012): Where did you get this?

[Steve (2012) has future Steve in a chokehold]

STEVE ROGERS: Bucky... is... alive!

STEVE ROGERS (2012): What?

[Future Steve takes the chance to sucker punch his counterpart, grab the scepter and knock Steve (2012) out, gets up and stares at him]

STEVE ROGERS: That is America's ass.

[Scene cuts back to Bruce and The Ancient One (2012). As Hulk is lying down on a beach chair who looks like he's sleeping with a hat on, Bruce Banner tries reasoning with the Ancient One to let him have the Time Stone.]

BRUCE BANNER: Please, please!

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): I'm sorry, I can't help you, Bruce. If I give up the Time Stone to help your Reality, I'm dooming my own.

BRUCE BANNER: With all due respect, I'm not sure the science really supports that.

[The Ancient One creates a projection with a long ray that simulates the flow of time.]

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): The Infinity Stones create what you experience as the flow of time. Remove one stone and that flow splits. [She flicks the Time Stone projection away and Shows black stream indicating a point of divergence] Now, this may benefit your reality, but my new one…not so much. In this new branched Reality, without our chief weapon against the forces of darkness, our world will be overrun. Millions will suffer. So, tell me, Doctor, can your science prevent all that?

BRUCE BANNER: No, but we can erase it. Because once we are done with the stones, we can return each one to its own timeline at the moment it was taken. So, chronologically, [Holds the Time Stone projection] in that reality, [puts it back to its spot] it never left.

[Bruce's astral form takes the projection of the removed Time Stone, replaces it back amongst the other five, and the doomed alternate dimension fades away, illustrating his point.]

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): [still not convinced.] But you are leaving out the most important part. In order to return the stones, you have to survive.

BRUCE BANNER: We will. I will. I promise.

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): I can't risk this Reality on a promise. It is the duty of the Sorcerer Supreme to protect the Time Stone.

BRUCE BANNER: Then, why the hell did Strange give it away?

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): [Surprised] What did you say?

BRUCE BANNER: Strange, he gave it away. He gave it to Thanos.

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): Willingly?

BRUCE BANNER: Yes!

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): ...Why?

BRUCE BANNER: I have no idea. Maybe he made a mistake.

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): Or I did. [She returns to Banner control of his Hulk body and opens the Eye of Agamotto, revealing the Time Stone] Strange is meant to be the best of us.

BRUCE BANNER: So he must have done it for a reason.

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): I fear you might be right. [gives him the Time Stone]

BRUCE BANNER: Thank you.

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): I'm counting on you, Bruce. We all are.

[Cut to Thanos (2014), Nebula (2014), Gamora (2014) and Ebony Maw (2014) on the Sanctuary II.]

THANOS (2014): [To Ebony Maw] Run diagnostics. Show me her memory file.

EBONY MAW (2014): Sire, the file appears entangled. It was a memory, but not hers. There's another consciousness sharing her network...another Nebula.

THANOS (2014): Impossible.

EBONY MAW (2014): This duplicate carries a time stamp... from nine years in the future.

THANOS (2014): Where is this other Nebula?

EBONY MAW (2014): In our solar system. On Morag.

THANOS (2014): Can you access her?

EBONY MAW (2014): Yes. The two are linked.

THANOS (2014): Search the duplicate's memories for Infinity Stones.

[Memory of the meeting with all the Avengers starts playing]

BRUCE BANNER (2023): And these stones have been in a lot of different places throughout history.

TONY STARK (2023): Our history. So, not a lot of convenient spots to just drop in.

CLINT BARTON (2023): Which means we have to pick our targets.

TONY STARK (2023): Correct.

[End memory.]

THANOS (2014): [To Ebony Maw] Freeze image.

GAMORA (2014): Terrans.

THANOS (2014): Avengers. Unruly wretches. What's that reflection? Amplify this, Maw.

GAMORA (2014): [Looking at a reflection of Nebula (2023)] I don't understand. Two Nebulas.

THANOS (2014): No. The same Nebula. From two different times. Set course for Morag. Scan the duplicate's memories. I want to see everything.

[Cut back to Thor and Rocket in Asgard, 2013]

FRIGGA (2013): My ladies, I'll see you after. Go on.

[Thor tries not to get caught behind a large post, but gets shocked when he sees his mother behind him] 

FRIGGA (2013): [To Thor] What are you doing?

THOR: Aah!!!

FRIGGA (2013): Aah!!!

THOR: OH, God!

FRIGGA (2013): You're better off leaving the sneaking to your brother.

THOR: Yeah, I was simply just going for a walk, and uh... [Trying to hide his belly]

FRIGGA (2013): What are you wearing?

THOR: I always wear this. This is one of my favorites.

[Frigga puts her hand on Thor's face and takes a good look at him}

FRIGGA (2013): What's wrong with your eye?

THOR: Oh, my eye. That's... you remember the Battle of Haroquin? When I got hit in the face with a broadsword?

FRIGGA (2013): You're not the Thor I know at all, are you?

THOR: [Pretending] Yes, I am.

FRIGGA (2013): The future hasn't been kind to you, has it?

THOR: I didn't say I'm from the future.

FRIGGA (2013): I was raised by witches, boy. I see with more than eyes, and you know that.

[Thor attempts to hold back his tears and fails miserably.]

THOR: [voice breaking up] I am totally, totally from the future.

FRIGGA (2013): Yes, you are.

THOR: I really need to talk to you.

FRIGGA (2013): We can talk.

[They both hug each other.]

[Scene cuts to Jane Foster waking up while Rocket sneaks behind her to extract the Aether] 

[Scene cuts back to Thor and Frigga's conversation.]

THOR: His head was over there... His body over there... What was the point? I was too late. I was just standing there. Some idiot with an axe.

FRIGGA (2013): You're no idiot. You're here aren't you? Seeking counsel from the wisest person in Asgard.

THOR: I guess, yeah.

FRIGGA (2013): Idiot? No. A failure? Absolutely.

THOR: That's a little bit harsh.

FRIGGA (2013): You do know what that makes you? Just like everyone else.

THOR: I'm not supposed to be like everyone else, am I?

FRIGGA (2013): Everyone fails at who they are supposed to be, Thor. The measure of a person, of a hero, is how well they succeed at being who they are.

THOR: I really missed you, Mum.

[scene cuts to Rocket running away from the Asgardian soldiers]

ROCKET: Thor! I got it!

ASGARDIAN SOLDIER (2013): Get that rabbit!

THOR: Ma, I have to tell you something.

FRIGGA (2013): No, son. You don't. You're here to repair your future, not mine.

THOR: But this is about your future.

FRIGGA (2013): It's none of my business. [does she know?]

ROCKET: Hey. You must be Mom. I got the thing. Come on, we got to move.

THOR: I wish we had more time.

FRIGGA (2013): No, this was a gift. And you're going to be the man you're meant to be.

THOR: I love you, Mom.

FRIGGA (2013): I love you. And eat a salad.

ROCKET: Come on. We gotta go.

FRIGGA (2013): [whispers] Goodbye.

ROCKET: Three... two...

THOR: No, wait!

[Thor holds out his hand]

ROCKET: [To Frigga] Wh- what am I looking at?

FRIGGA (2013): Oh, sometimes it takes a second.

[Thor summons Mjolnir.]

THOR: [Happy and a little bit surprised] I'm still worthy.

["Come And Get Your Love" starts playing in the background.]

ROCKET: Oh, boy.

THOR: Goodbye, Mom.

FRIGGA (2013): [whispers] Goodbye.

[Scene cuts to Quill on Morag dancing to "Come And Get Your Love", we then pan over to Rhodey and Nebula hiding in the background watching Quill dance and sing to their perspective without music.]

RHODEY: So he's an idiot?

NEBULA: Yeah.

[Rhodey knocks out Quill and Nebula rummages around to take Quill's tool.]

RHODEY: What's that?

NEBULA: The tool of a thief.

[Nebula uses the tool to open the door that leads to The Orb A.K.A The Power Stone. Nebula tries to walk in but is stopped by Rhodey.]

RHODEY: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa...This is the part where spikes come out with skeletons on the end and everything...

NEBULA: What are you talking about?

RHODEY: When you break into a place called the temple of the Power Stone, There's gonna be a bunch of booby traps–

[Nebula just shakes her head and walks in.]

RHODEY: Okay. All right. Go ahead.

[Nebula forces her hand inside the force field protecting The Orb while it melts away the exterior plating on her arm. She successfully retrieves The Orb and hands it to Rhodey all the while Rhodey watched the whole thing happened.]

NEBULA: I wasn't always like this.

RHODEY: Me either. But we work with what we got, right?

[They just both look at each other solemnly.]

RHODEY: Sync up. [They both suit up.] Three.. two.. one...

[Rhodey is the only one who disappears while Nebula is left behind unable to move, then she riddled with pain on her head. She falls to the ground.]

[Sanctuary II. 2014 Nebula is being scanned in synch with her future self. A memory is played, coming from future Nebulas head.]

BRUCE (Memory): You murdered trillions!

THANOS (Memory): You should be grateful.

NATASHA (Memory): Where are the stones?

THANOS (Memory): Gone. Reduced to atoms.

BRUCE (Memory): You used them two days ago.

THANOS (Memory): I used the stones to destroy the stones. It nearly killed me. But the work is done. It always will be. I am inevitable.

[Memory pauses.]

GAMORA (2014): What did you do to them?

THANOS (2014): Nothing. Yet. They're not trying to stop something I'm going to do in our time. They're trying to undo something I've already done in theirs.

GAMORA (2014): The stones...

THANOS (2014): I found them all. I won. Tipped the cosmic scales to balance.

[Thanos (2014) caress Gamora (2014) and she kneels down]

EBONY MAW (2014): This is your future.

THANOS (2014): It's my destiny.

[Maw resumes playing the memory]

NEBULA (Memory): My father is many things. A liar is not one of them.

THANOS (Memory): Ah...Thank you, Daughter. Perhaps I treated you too harshly...

[Thanos gets beheaded in the memory, Gamora (2014) is shocked and stands up]

THANOS (2014): And that, is destiny fulfilled.

EBONY MAW (2014): [Dangerous voice.] Sire, your Daughter...

[Maw (2014) telekinetically wraps a chain around Nebula (2014).]

NEBULA (2014): No!

EBONY MAW (2014): ...is a traitor.

NEBULA (2014): That's not me. It's not. I could never...
I would never betray you. Never.

[Thanos (2014) releases the chain around Nebula (2014) neck and holds her head in his palm]

THANOS (2014): I know. And you'll have the chance to prove it.

[Thanos (2014) makes sure Nebula cannot travel back to 2023. Nebula is stuck in 2014.]

NEBULA: No! He knows! [Runs back to the ship and gets on the comms.] Barton? Barton, come in. Romanoff? Come in, we have a problem. Come on! Come in, we have a prob....Thanos knows. Thanos… He knows.

[Nebula looks up in horror just to be abducted by the Sanctuary II. The scene cuts to Steve, who has just defeated himself, jumping down from a building with the scepter]

TONY STARK: Cap–

[He turns around to see Tony and Scott sitting in a broken car.]

TONY STARK: Sorry, buddy. We got a– problem.

SCOTT LANG: Huh. Yeah, we do.

STEVE ROGERS: Well, what are we gonna do now?

TONY STARK: You know what? Give me a break, Steve. I just got hit in the head with the Hulk.

SCOTT LANG: You said that we had one shot. This– this was our shot. We shot it. It's shot. Six stones or nothing. Six stones or nothing–

TONY STARK: You're repeating yourself, you know that? You're repeating yourself.

SCOTT LANG: You're repeating yourself. You're repeating yourself. You know– No.

TONY STARK: Dude, come on.

SCOTT LANG: You never wanted a time heist, you went on board with the time heist–

TONY STARK: I dropped the ball.

SCOTT LANG: You ruined the time heist.

TONY STARK: Is that what I did?

SCOTT LANG: Yeah!

STEVE ROGERS: Are there any other options with the Tesseract?

SCOTT LANG: No, no, no. There's no other options. There's no do-overs. We're not going anywhere else. We have one particle left. Each. That's it, alright? We use that– Bye, bye. You're not going home.

STEVE ROGERS: Yeah, well if we don't try, then no one else is going home, either.

TONY STARK: I got it. There's another way. To retake the Tesseract and acquire new particles. We'll stroll down memory lane. Military installation, Garden State.

STEVE ROGERS: When were they both there?

TONY STARK: They were there at a– I've a vaguely exact idea.

STEVE ROGERS: How vague?

SCOTT LANG: What are you talking about? Where are we going?

TONY STARK: I know for a fact they were there–

SCOTT LANG: Who's they? What are we doing?

TONY STARK: And I know how I know.

SCOTT LANG: Guys, what's up? What is it?

TONY STARK: Well, it looks like we're improvising.

SCOTT LANG: Right. What are we improvising?

TONY STARK: Scott, get this back to the compound.

TONY STARK: Suit up.

SCOTT LANG: What's in New Jersey?

TONY STARK: 0-4,

STEVE ROGERS: 0-4–
-

TONY STARK: Uhh, 0-7.

STEVE ROGERS: 0-7.
-

SCOTT LANG: Excuse me...

TONY STARK: 
1-9-7-0.

STEVE ROGERS: Are you sure?

SCOTT LANG: Cap. Captain. Steve, sorry, America. Rogers. Look,
if you do this, and this doesn't work,
you're not coming back.

TONY STARK: 
Thanks for the pep talk, pissant. [To Steve]
Do you trust me?

STEVE ROGERS: 
I do.

TONY STARK: 
Your call.

STEVE ROGERS: 
Here we go.

[Cut to Steve and Tony in New Jersey, 1970]

OUR WATCHER INFORMANT, STAN LEE (1922-2018 R.I.P): [Driving past Steve and Tony] Hey, man! Make love, not war!

TONY STARK: Clearly, you weren't actually born here, right?

STEVE ROGERS: The idea of me was.

TONY STARK: Right. Well, imagine
you're SHIELD, running a quasi-fascistic
intelligence organization. Where do you hide it?

STEVE ROGERS: 
In plain sight.

[Tony and Steve are in an elevator with a lady]

TONY STARK: [Leaving the elevator] Good luck on your
mission, Captain.

STEVE ROGERS: [Waiting for another floor] 
Good luck on your
project, doctor.

ELEVATOR LADY: 
You're new here?

STEVE ROGERS: Not exactly.

[Cut to Tony in what seems to be a lab area and he is looking for the tesseract]

TONY STARK: [Grabbing Tesseract] 
Gotcha. Back in the game.

HOWARD STARK: 
Arnim, you in there? Arnim? Hey! Door's this way, pal.

TONY STARK: Oh, yeah.

HOWARD STARK: I'm looking for Dr. Zola.
Have you seen him?

TONY STARK: 
Yeah, no, Dr. Zol– No, I haven't seen a soul. [awkwardly bumps into a chair] Pardon me.

HOWARD STARK: Do I know you?

TONY STARK: No, sir. I'm a– a visitor from MIT.

HOWARD STARK: Huh. MIT. Got a name?

TONY STARK: Uh– Howard.

HOWARD STARK: Well, that'll be
easy to remember.

TONY STARK: Howard– Potts.

HOWARD STARK:  
Well, I'm Howard Stark. [Holds out hand to shake.]

TONY STARK: Hi. [Holds Howard's finger]

HOWARD STARK: Shake it, don't pull it.

TONY STARK: Yeah–

HOWARD STARK: You look a little green around
the gills there, Potts.

TONY STARK: I'm fine. Just, long hours.

HOWARD STARK: Wanna get some air? Hello, Potts.

TONY STARK: Yeah. That would be swell.

HOWARD STARK: That way.

TONY STARK: Okay.

HOWARD STARK: Need your briefcase?

[Tony grabs the case]

HOWARD STARK: You're not one of
those beatniks, are ya, Potts?

[Cut to a younger Hank Pym in his laboratory.]

CAPTAIN STEVENS (STEVE ROGERS): Hello. Dr. Pym?

HANK PYM: That would be the number that you called. Yes.

CAPTAIN STEVENS (STEVE ROGERS): This is Captain Stevens from shipping. We have a package for you.

HANK PYM: Bring it up.

CAPTAIN STEVENS (STEVE ROGERS): Well, that's the thing, sir. We can't.

HANK PYM: I'm confused. I thought that was your job.

CAPTAIN STEVENS (STEVE ROGERS): Well, it's just– Sir,
the box is glowing and, to be honest, some of our mail
guys aren't feeling that great.

HANK PYM: They didn't open it, did they?

CAPTAIN STEVENS (STEVE ROGERS): Yeah, they did. You better get down here.

[We then see Pym running down a hallway]

HANK PYM: Excuse me! Out of the way!

[cut back to Howard and Tony]

TONY STARK: So, flowers and sauerkraut. You
got a big date tonight?

HOWARD STARK: My wife's expecting. And, uh– Too much
time in the office.

TONY STARK: Congratulations.

HOWARD STARK: Thanks. Hold this, will you?

TONY STARK: Yeah, sure. How far along is she?

HOWARD STARK: I don't know– Uh– She's at the point where she can't stand the sound of my chewing. I guess I'll be eating
dinner in the pantry again.

TONY STARK: I have a little girl.

HOWARD STARK: A girl would be nice. Less of a chance
she'd turn out exactly like me.

TONY STARK: What'd be so awful about that?

HOWARD STARK: Let's just say that the greater
good has rarely outweighed my own self-interests.

[cut to elevator lady talking to security guards about Tony and Captain America looking fishy]

SECURITY OFFICER: And you've never seen these two men before?

ELEVATOR LADY: No, I've got an eye for this. The two of them looked fishy.

SECURITY OFFICER: Can you describe them?

ELEVATOR LADY: Well, one of them had a hippie beard.

SECURITY OFFICER: Hippie? Like Bee Gees or Mungo Jerry?

ELEVATOR LADY: Definitely Mungo Jerry.

SECURITY OFFICER: Yeah, this is Chesler. I
need every available MPs on sub-level 6. We have
a potential breach.

[Steve walks into a room. Feeling safe, he suddenly see's a picture of himself. Then he's surprised to see his love Margret Carter.]

[Cut to Tony and Howard still talking to each other]

TONY STARK: So, where are you
at with names?

HOWARD STARK: Well, if it's a boy, my wife likes Elmonzo.

TONY STARK: Huh, Might wanna let that stew awwhile. You got time.

HOWARD STARK: Let me ask you a question. When your kid was born– were you nervous?

TONY STARK: Wildly. Yeah.

HOWARD STARK: Did you feel qualified? Like you had any idea how to
successfully operate that thing?

TONY STARK: I literally pieced it together as I went along, I thought about what my Dad did, and–

HOWARD STARK: My old man, he never met a problem he couldn't solve with a belt. 

TONY STARK: I thought my dad was tough on me. And now, looking back, I just remember the good stuff, you know. He did drop the odd pearl.

HOWARD STARK: Yeah? Like what?

TONY STARK: "No amount of money ever
bought a second of time."

HOWARD STARK: Smart guy.

TONY STARK: He did his best.

HOWARD STARK:
Let me tell you. That
kid's not even here yet, and there's nothing I
wouldn't do for him. Good to meet you, Potts.

TONY STARK: Yeah, Howard– Everything's gonna be all right. Thank you– for everything– you've done for this country.

HOWARD STARK: Jarvis, have we ever met that guy?

EDWIN JARVIS: You meet a lot of people, sir.

HOWARD STARK: Seems very familiar. Weird beard.

[2014 Nebula has captured 2023 Nebula and 2014 Nebula is fighting her future self.]

NEBULA (2014): You're weak.

NEBULA: I'm you.

[Nebula (2014) throws a punch straight at Present Nebula. Gamora (2014) walks into the room.]

NEBULA: You can stop this. You know you want to. Did you see what
happens in the future? Thanos finds the Soul Stone. You wanna know
how he does that? You wanna know what
he does to you?

NEBULA (2014): That's enough. [kicks Present Nebula to the wall and pulls out her Electric Knife.] You disgust me. But that doesn't
mean you're useless.

[Nebula (2014) steals the golden plate on the side of Present Nebula´s face and wears it herself.]

[Then she walks up to Thanos, gives him a Pym Particle and shows him her new look.]

NEBULA (2014): How do I look?

[Scene cuts to Vormir 2014 where Natasha and Clint arrives].

CLINT BARTON: Wow– Under different circumstances, this would be totally awesome.

[Natasha and Clint starts walking towards the mountain and climb it.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: 
I bet the raccoon didn't
have to climb a mountain.

CLINT BARTON: 
Technically, he's not
a raccoon, you know.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: 
Whatever. He eats garbage

RED SKULL (2014): Welcome.

[Natasha and Clint draws their weapons.]

RED SKULL (2014): 
Natasha, daughter of Ivan. Clint, son of Edith.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Who are you?

RED SKULL (2014): Consider me a guide. To you, and to all who
seek the Soul Stone.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Oh, good. You tell us where it is.
Then we'll be on our way.

RED SKULL (2014): Ah, liebchen– If only it were that easy.

[Red Skull leads Clint and Natasha to the cliff]

RED SKULL (2014): What you seek lies
in front of you... as does what you fear.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: The stone is down there.

RED SKULL (2014): For one of you. For the other... In order to take the stone, you
must lose that which you love. An everlasting exchange. A soul, for a soul.

[scene cuts to Natasha sitting on a log while Clint watches the Stonekeeper.]

CLINT BARTON: How's it going? Jesus...Maybe he's making this shit up.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: No. I don't think so.

CLINT BARTON: Why, 'cause he knows your Daddy's name?

NATASHA ROMANOFF: I didn't. Thanos left here with the stone without his daughter. It's not a coincidence.

CLINT BARTON: Yeah.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Whatever it takes.

CLINT BARTON: Whatever it takes.

[Natasha stands up.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: If we don't get that stone, billions of people stay dead.

CLINT BARTON: Then I guess we both know who it's gotta be.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: 
I guess we do.

[Clint holds Natasha's hand and she reciprocates and they look at each other]

CLINT BARTON: 
I'm starting to think– we mean different people here, Natasha.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: For the last five years I've been trying to do one thing: Get to right here. That's all it's been about. Bringing everybody back.

CLINT BARTON: Oh, don't you get all decent on me now.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: What, you think I wanna do it? I'm trying to save your life, you idiot.

CLINT BARTON: 
Yeah, well, I don't want you to, because I– Natasha, you know what I've done. You know what I've become.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: I don't judge people on
their worst mistakes.

CLINT BARTON: 
Maybe you should.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: 
You didn't.

CLINT BARTON: 
You're a pain in my ass, you know that?

[Both Clint and Natasha lean their heads against each other]

CLINT BARTON: Okay. You win.

[Clint smiles and knocks Natasha to the ground]

CLINT BARTON: 
Tell my family I love them.

[Natasha returns the favor by tackling Clint to the ground]

NATASHA ROMANOFF:  
You tell them yourself.

[Natasha electrocutes Clint and she runs towards the cliff. Clint gets up and shoots an explosive arrow knocking her down. Clint then runs towards the cliff and jumps. Natasha jumps after him and hooks him up to a grappling hook]

CLINT BARTON: 
Damn you!

NATASHA ROMANOFF: 
Let me go.

CLINT BARTON: 
No. Please, no.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: 
It's okay.

CLINT BARTON: 
Please– [Natasha kicks the wall, falls off the rope, and plummets to the ground.] NO!!!

[The shot shows her body on the ground, dead. A boom in the sky sends Clint in a pool of water with the Soul Stone in his hand. He hits the ground out of sadness. His Quantum Suit activates and he shrinks back to the present day, soon joined by the others returning from their journeys.]

[Cut to the Avengers HQ and the Quantum platform everyone looks around to see all the recovered stones]

BRUCE BANNER: 
Did we get them all?

RHODEY: You telling me this'll
actually work?

[There's a pause as everyone starts to realise someone is missing]

BRUCE BANNER: 
Clint, where's Nat?

[The silence from Clint tells them all they need to know. The mission was completed but at a dire cost. Sadness overtakes everyone. Bruce falls to his knees and pounds the floor in grief.]

[Cut to outside HQ. Lakeside, Tony, Steve, Thor, Clint, and Bruce are mourning their fallen teammate and friend]

TONY STARK: Do we know if she had family?

STEVE ROGERS: Yeah. Us.

THOR: (confused) What?

TONY STARK: I just asked him a question–

THOR: Yeah, you're acting like she's dead. Why are we acting like she's dead? We have the stones, right? As long as we have the stones, Cap, we can bring her back, isn't that right? [GROWLING.] So stop this shit. We're the Avengers, get it together.

CLINT BARTON: We can't get her back.

THOR: Wha– what?

CLINT BARTON: It can't be undone. It can't.

[Thor dryly laughs.]

THOR: I'm sorry. No offense, but you're
a very earthly being. Okay? We're talking about space magic. And "can't" seems very definitive don't you think?

CLINT BARTON: (to Thor) Yeah, look, I know that I'm way outside my paygrade here. But she still isn't here, is she?

THOR: No, that's my point–

CLINT BARTON: It can't– be undone. Or that's at least what the red floating guy had to say. (shouts) Maybe you wanna go talk to him, okay? GO GRAB YOUR HAMMER, AND YOU GO FLY AND TALK TO HIM!

[Clint's anger is quickly replaced with grief]

CLINT BARTON: It was supposed to be me. She sacrificed her life for that goddamn stone. She bet her life on it.

[In a burst of anger, Bruce grabs a bench and hurls it clear across the lake. His anger spent, he turns to the others with a resigned look on his face]

BRUCE BANNER: She's not coming back. We have to make it worth it. We have to.

STEVE ROGERS: We will.

[Cut to inside the Avenger's Lab. Tony carefully places the stones in the gauntlet he made while Bruce and Rocket watches. With nervous precision, Tony manipulates the machine and carefully places all six stones into the gauntlet]

ROCKET: Boom!

[Tony and Bruce jump a bit, and quickly groan at Rocket's joke. Scene cuts to another room with the new finished gauntlet. Everyone is gathered around it.]

ROCKET: All right. The glove's ready. Question is, who's gonna snap their freaking fingers?

THOR: I'll do it.

SCOTT LANG: Excuse me?

THOR: It's okay.

EVERYONE: (holding up Thor) No, no, no, whoa. Stop. Stop. Wait a sec. Hey, hey–

STEVE ROGERS: Wait, wait, Thor, just wait. We haven't decided who's gonna put that on yet.

THOR:
I'm sorry. What, we're just sitting around waiting for the right opportunity?

SCOTT LANG: We should at least discuss it.

THOR: No, no, sitting here staring at that thing is not gonna bring everybody back. I'm the strongest Avenger, okay? So this responsibility falls upon me. It's my duty.

TONY STARK: It's not about that–

THOR: (hushes everyone up) It's not that– Stop it! Just let me! (he tears up) Just let me do it. Just let me do something good. Something right.

TONY STARK : Look– It's not just the fact that that glove is channeling enough energy to light up a continent, I'm telling you, you're in no condition.

THOR: What do you– What do you think is coursing through my veins right now?

RHODEY: Cheez Whiz?

THOR: Lightning.

TONY STARK: Yeah.

BRUCE: Lightning won't help you, pal. It's gotta be me.

[Thor lets go of Tony. Sorry, Thor. Maybe next time.]

BRUCE BANNER: You saw what those stones did to Thanos. It almost killed him. None of you could survive.

STEVE ROGERS: How do we know you will?

BRUCE BANNER: We don't. But the radiation's mostly gamma. [He takes a good look at the gauntlet] It's like...I was made for this.

[Nebula (2014) sneaks off to the Quantum portal and activates it]

TONY STARK: Good to go, yeah?

BRUCE BANNER: Let's do it.

TONY STARK: You remember– everyone Thanos snapped away five years ago and just bringing them back to now, today. Don't change anything from the last five years.

BRUCE BANNER: Got it.

[Everyone gets ready and suits up]

TONY STARK: F.R.I.D.A.Y., do me a favor and activate Barn Door Protocol. Will you?

F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Yes, boss.

[Avengers facility goes on lockdown]

BRUCE BANNER: Everybody comes home.

[Bruce puts on the gauntlet, which nanobotically expands to fit his hand, and the power surge overwhelms him. He grunts in pain.]

THOR: Take it off! Take it off!

STEVE ROGERS: No, wait. Bruce, are you okay?

TONY STARK: Talk to me, Banner.

BRUCE BANNER: I'm okay. I'm okay.

[Thor gives a double thumbs up, scene cuts to Nebula (2014) opening the Quantum Tunnel and brings the Sanctuary II to the present.]

[Bruce screams, fighting through the intense pain coursing through his body courtesy of the gauntlet, and manages to snap his fingers. He faints and the gauntlet slides off his arm, Clint kicks it away]

STEVE ROGERS: Bruce!

TONY STARK: Don't move him.

BRUCE ROGERS: [Bruce holds onto Steve's arm] Did it work?

THOR: Worth a shot. It's over. It's okay.

[Scott walks towards the outside windows and sees plants and birds. Clint hears his phone ringing and sees it's his wife calling]

CLINT BARTON: (struggling to speak from sheer happiness) Honey. Honey.

SCOTT LANG: Guys– I think it worked!

[Bruce opens his eyes and sees the Sanctuary II up in the sky and a single missile heading towards the base blowing away Scott away. Then a continuous array of missiles destroys the base completely and everyone sinks below to the underground.]

[The camera pans over to see Bruce holding up tons of debris from collapsing on top of the other Avengers with his one good arm. Some debris is stuck on top of Rocket.]

ROCKET: I can't breathe. I can't breathe! I can't breathe.

RHODEY: Canopy. Canopy. Canopy. [Rhodey gets out of his damaged suit]

BRUCE BANNER: Rhodey, Rocket, get outta here!

[Rhodey crawls over to help Rocket while taking a rebar as leverage to lift the debris off Rocket]

ROCKET: Hurry up! Hurry up! Come on!

[Rhodey gets Rocket out and they both sigh in relief]

BRUCE BANNER: Rhodey!

[A flood engulfs both Rhodey and Rocket]

[Scene cuts to Scott who survives the blast by shrinking.]

RHODEY: Mayday, mayday! Does anybody copy? We're in the lower level, it's flooding!

SCOTT LANG: What?

RHODEY: We're drowning! Does anybody copy? Mayday!

SCOTT LANG: Wait! I'm here! I'm here, can you hear me?

[Scene cuts to Clint in the sewer system and trying to get his bearings. He flashes a light upwards to see what happened.]

CLINT BARTON: Cap?

[Clint finds the gauntlet is with him but senses he's not alone down there. He shoots an arrow with light towards the dark tunnel and finds hordes of Outriders.]

CLINT BARTON: [under his breath] Damn.

[Clint takes the gauntlet and runs towards the opposite direction while the Outriders chase after him.]

[Scene cuts to the Sanctuary II and it beams Thanos (2014) fully armoured to the ground. Nebula walks towards him.]

THANOS (2014): Daughter.

NEBULA (2014): Yes, Father.

THANOS (2014): So, this is the future. Well done.

[Nebula (2014) takes off the orange plate on her head and throws it away]

NEBULA (2014): Thank you, Father. They suspected nothing.

[Thanos (2014) plants his double-bladed sword on the ground, takes off his helmet and places on top of the sword's edge.]

THANOS (2014): The arrogant never do.

[Thanos then sits down]

THANOS (2014): Go. Find the stones. Bring them to me.

NEBULA (2014): What will you do?

THANOS (2014): Wait.

[Nebula (2014) proceeds to go find the stones and the camera pans over the Sanctuary II and we see Gamora (2014) watching. Gamora (2014) heads over to where Nebula is being held prisoner.]

GAMORA (2014): Tell me something. In the future, what happens to you and me?

NEBULA: I tried to kill you. Several times.

[Gamora (2014) rolls her eyes]

NEBULA: But eventually,
we become friends. We become sisters.

[Gamora (2014) holds out her hand.]

GAMORA (2014): 
Come on. We can stop him.

[Nebula takes it]

[Scene cuts to Tony walking towards Steve who's unconscious on the ground.]

TONY STARK: Come on, buddy. Wake up. That's my man. [He has Cap's shield.] You lose this again, I'm keeping it.

STEVE ROGERS: What happened?

TONY STARK: You messed with time.
It tends to mess back. You'll see.

[Tony helps Steve on his feet. They walk up to join Thor, who has been observing Thanos (2014) from a distance.] 

TONY STARK: What's he been doing?

THOR: Absolutely nothing.

STEVE ROGERS: Where are the stones?

TONY STARK: Somewhere under all this. All I know is he doesn't have them.

STEVE ROGERS: So we keep it that way.

THOR: You know it's a trap, right?

TONY STARK: Yeah. And I don't much care.

THOR: Good. Just as long we are all in agreement. [Thunder cracks as Thor stretches out both hands to summon both Stormbreaker and Mjolnir (2013). His casual clothes transform into his armour and cape, with his beard getting some braid treatment.] Let's kill him properly this time.

[The Big Three walk over to confront Thanos face to face]

THANOS (2014): You could not live with your own failure. And where did that bring you? Back to me. I thought by eliminating half of life, the other half would thrive. But you’ve shown me that’s impossible. And as long as there are those that remember what was, there will always be those that are unable to accept what can be. They will resist.

TONY STARK: Yep. We're all kinds of stubborn.

THANOS (2014): I'm thankful. Because now, I know
what I must do. [stands up] I will shred this universe
down to its last atom. [Thanos (2014) puts on his helmet] And then– With the stones you've collected
for me, create a new one. Teeming with life, but knows not what it has lost
but only what it has been given. [Thor lights himself up.] A grateful universe.

STEVE ROGERS: Born out of blood.

THANOS (2014): They'll never know it. Because you won't be
alive to tell them.

[The fighting starts, and Thor and Tony go straight at Thanos (2014). Meanwhile, Hulk is under all of the mess trying to hold up the structure. Rhodey and Rocket are breathing for their lives.]

RHODEY: See you on the other side, man.

SCOTT LANG: Hang on! I'm coming!

[Hawkeye is running with the infinity gauntlet. He blows the place, and escapes before the Outriders overwhelm him. He sees Nebula.]

CLINT BARTON: Oh, hey– I know you.

[Clint gives her the gauntlet. then she puts her hand on her earpiece]

NEBULA: Father.

[Clint gasped and finds out that she's from 2014]

NEBULA (2014): I have the stones.

CLINT BARTON: What?!

[Clint tries to get up but Nebula (2014) steps her foot down on him an points her gun at him]

GAMORA (2014): Stop.

[Gamora (2014) come around the corner]

NEBULA (2014): You're betraying us?

[With her hands up, Nebula joins Gamora (2014). Nebula (2014) points her gun at her future self]

NEBULA: You don't have to do this.

NEBULA (2014): I am this.

GAMORA (2014): No, you're not.

NEBULA: You've seen what we become.

GAMORA (2014): Nebula, listen to her.

NEBULA: You can change.

NEBULA (2014): He won't let me.

[Nebula (2014) points a gun at Gamora (2014)]

GAMORA (2014): NO!

[Present Nebula shoots Nebula (2014) and she dies. Hawkeye picks up the Infinity Gauntlet]

[Cut to the 3 heroes battling Thanos]

TONY STARK: Okay, Thor. Hit me.

[Thor bangs his 2 hammers together combined with his lightning. Tony's suit sucks up the energy and he shoots it out using his hands and his body. Thanos twirls his blade really fast to divert the energy. Thor grabs Stormbreaker and uses it to bat Mjölnir to hit Thanos. Thanos uses Tony as a shield resulting in damage to his system.]

F.R.I.D.A.Y: Boss, wake up!

[Steve tries to attack Thanos but is easily shielded away by the Mad Titan. Thor's attack on Thanos is blocked by his sword. Thor is beaten and choked by Thanos, as he punches him. Mjolnir is flicked away as Thanos relentlessly beats up Thor, throwing him into a tree and socking him before throwing him over rubble and socking him again. Thor tries to grab Stormbreaker but Thanos grabs it and uses it against Thor as he tries to defend himself. Mjölnir (2013) starts to float off the ground while Thanos is digging it into Thor, when suddenly Mjolnir flies into Thanos, zooms past, stops, and flies back, both look on in amazement as Steve picks up the hammer.]

THOR: I knew it!

[Thanos' (2014) kicks Thor to the ground and proceed to battle Steve dual wielding both his shield and Mjolnir (2013)]

[Steve proceeds to charge at Thanos swinging Mjolnir (2013) and hitting Thanos in the face knocking him down. Steve throws his shield and Thanos (2014) deflects, Steve throws Mjolnir (2013) to his shield creating a shockwave and knocking Thanos (2014) off his feet. Steve goes on the offensive on Thanos, throwing his shield first at Thanos and quickly hitting it back at him again with Mjolnir. He lines his arm back up and underarms a channel of lightning on Thanos.]

[Thanos eventually gets the upper hand, he removes his helmet, stabs Steve on the leg and knocks Mjolnir (2013) out of his hand. Thanos proceed to destroy Steve's shield with his double-bladed sword and throws him across the battlefield.]

[Steve staggeredly tries to get up.]

THANOS (2014): In all my years of conquest– violence– slaughter– It was never personal. But I'll tell you now– what I'm about to do to your stubborn, annoying little planet– I'm gonna enjoy it. Very, very much.

[Thanos' (2014) entire army is summons to the ground which include the Children of Thanos, Chitauri, Sakaarans, Outriders and Chitauri Gorillas. Upon seeing the army descending on Earth, Steve slowly gets back to his feet. With a fierce determination, he tightens his broken shield to his arm and stands against Thanos' giant army alone. Suddenly, a crackling comes in on his communicator.]

SAM WILSON: Hey, Cap, you read me?

[Steve stops and looks around] 

SAM WILSON: Cap, it's Sam. Can you hear me?

[A yellow portal begins to form behind him.]

SAM WILSON: On your left.

[Steve looks behind to see the portal on his left side. Three figures step through; Okoye, Shuri, and Black Panther, fully restored and ready to fight. Steve and the revived Wakandans share a look when Sam zooms in from above in his Falcon armor. As he does, we see dozens more portals opening up all around the battlefield. Through one of these, we see Doctor Strange descend in. He is joined by Drax, Mantis, Star Lord, and Spider-Man. Everyone watches in confusion and awe as more and more heroes arrive from all corners of the universe, all backed up with forces of their own including Black Panther and his Wakandan army, Valkyrie and the Asgardians, Wong and the Masters of the Mystic Arts and several Ravager ships. Amongst the throngs of heroes we see Bucky, Groot, the Scarlet Witch, the Wasp, and Pepper Potts (clad in her own iron suit) arrive. Nearly every hero has magically been transported to the battlefield to face Thanos' hordes.]

DOCTOR STRANGE: Is that everyone?

WONG: What, you wanted more?

[Giant-Man emerges from the rubble of the Avengers facility with Professor Hulk, War Machine, and Rocket. The Avengers, Guardians, Wakandans, Asgardians, and Ravagers take up battle positions. The heroes standing across Thanos' forces.]

STEVE ROGERS: AVENGERS! [he summons Mjolnir] –assemble.

[Thor makes a battle cry, as does Black Panther and the heroes charge, the Avengers theme swelling with their stride. Thanos raises his sword towards them, commanding his army to charge as well. Then both sides collide. The camera switches between the meet-line, Drax and Korg, Pepper and Tony, all which are battling against Thanos' army.]

[Cuts to Steve and Thor fighting. Steve takes Stormbreaker but Thor flies to him and passes Mjolnir]

THOR: No, no, give me that. You have the little one. [best meme ever]

[Later, Tony Stark is seen fighting some of Thanos' army. But Cull Obsidian punches him to the ground, then Giant-Man stomps him flat and Peter Parker runs to Tony.]

PETER PARKER: Hey! Holy cow! You will not believe what's been going on. Do you remember when we were in space? And I got all dusty? I must've passed out, Because I woke up, and you were gone. But Doctor Strange was there, right? He was like, "It's been five years. Come on, they need us." And then he started doing the yellow sparkly thing that he does all the time–

TONY STARK: He did? Oh, God.

PETER PARKER: What are you doing?

[Tony hugs Peter, making him shocked, but he hugs Tony back.]

PETER PARKER: Oh, this is nice.

[Cut to Star-Lord Fighting a bunch of Sakaarans, killing all of them except one, which makes him fall over, but a off-screen shot kills him and he drops on Peter. Peter gets up and sees Gamora (2014). Thinking its present Gamora, he is shocked.]

PETER QUILL: Gamora? [Peter slowly approaches Gamora (2014)] I thought I lost you.

[Peter touches Gamora's hair, not knowing she isn't present Gamora. In response, Gamora (2014) grabs Peter's hand firmly off her hair.]

PETER QUILL: Ow.

GAMORA (2014): [Kicks Peter in the nuts, slightly hurting Peter] Don't– touch– [Kicks him again, this time harder] me!

[Peter falls from the pain, while Gamora (2014) wipes her face.]

PETER QUILL: You missed the first time– Then you got them both the second time.

GAMORA (2014): [to Nebula] This is the one? Seriously?

NEBULA: The choices were him, or a tree.

[Peter pointing to Gamora (2014) in confusion, then to Nebula in question, and then back to Gamora (2014).]

[Later, Clint is seen running with the gauntlet]

CLINT BARTON: Cap, what do you want me to do with this damn thing?

STEVE ROGERS: Get those stones as far away as possible!

BRUCE BANNER: No! We need to get them back where they came from.

TONY STARK: No way to get them back. Thanos destroyed the quantum tunnel.

SCOTT LANG: Hold on! [Scott shrinks to normal size and pulls out a remote.] That wasn't our only time machine.

[Scott presses the button, which activates Luis's van's Horn with the song La Cucaracha, which is heard from afar. Hearing so, Cap goes to higher ground.]

STEVE ROGERS: Anyone see an ugly, brown van up there?

VALKYRIE: Yes! But you're not gonna like where it's parked!

TONY STARK: Scott, how long you need to get that thing working?

SCOTT LANG: Maybe ten minutes.

STEVE ROGERS: Get it started. We'll get the stones to you.

HOPE VAN DYNE: We're on it, Cap.

[Scott and Hope share a look and they shrink. Scott grabs Hope, and they fly to the van. Doctor Strange traps a group of Chitauri in his magic and sends them through portals as Tony joins him.]

TONY STARK: Hey. You said one out of 14 million, we win, yeah? Tell me this is it.

DOCTOR STRANGE: If I tell you what happens, it won't happen.

TONY STARK: You better be right.

[Cut to Scott and Hope entering a small hole in the van's window, getting to the drive seat, regrowing and trying to activate the Quantum Tunnel.]

THE WASP: It's a mess back here.

SCOTT LANG: It's– it's dead.

THE WASP: What?

SCOTT LANG: It's dead. I have to hotwire it.

THANOS (2014): Where's Nebula?

CORVUS GLAIVE: She's not responding.

EBONY MAW (2014): [pointing.] Sire!

[Thanos sees the gauntlet. Clint rushes through Outriders, before finding himself surrounded. He is saved by Black Panther.] 

T'CHALLA: Clint! Give it to me.

[Clint gives the Gauntlet to T'Challa, and he runs towards the van while fighting Thanos' army. Eventually he is stopped by the double edged sword, boomeranged by Thanos. When it gets back to him, he charges T'Challa, but is stopped by Wanda, who is filled with anger for the loss of Vision.]

WANDA MAXIMOFF: You took everything from me.

THANOS (2014): I don't even know who you are.

WANDA MAXIMOFF: You will.

[With her powers, Wanda picks up some debris on the ground and tries to crush Thanos with it.]

[Ebony May grabs the Gauntlet with his telekinesis of bricks. He does the same for T'Challa, trying to stop him from getting the glove.]

PETER PARKER: I got it!

[Peter grabs the Gauntlet with his webshooters and is surrounded by Chitauri.]

PETER PARKER: Activate Instant Kill!

[The Robotic Spider Legs come out of his back, stabbing the Chitauri.]

[Thanos tries to kill Wanda with his double-bladed sword, but Wanda pushes it away. She then uses her powers to try and crush Thanos.]

THANOS (2014): Rain fire!

CORVUS GLAIVE: But sire, our troops!

THANOS (2014): Just do it!

[The spaceship cannons appear and start to fire at the heroes. It flings Maximoff away. Wong makes a shield and holds it up. The others do the same. Suddenly one of the cannons hit a dam. Water starts to flood into the battlefield. Pepper is the first to notice.]

PEPPER POTTS: Uh, is anyone else seeing this?

[Doctor Strange looks at the broken dam and uses his magic to stop the water from flooding the battlefield. Meanwhile, Peter is still battling the Chitauri.]

PETER PARKER: I got this. I got this! Okay, I don't got this. Help! Somebody, help!

STEVE: Hey, Queens, heads up.

[Steve throws Mjolnir, and Peter shoots a web and glides along, then Pepper Potts catches him]

PEPPER POTTS: Hang on. I got you, kid. [She drops him on Valkyrie's Pegasus]

PETER PARKER: Hey! Nice to meet you– OH, MY GOD!

[The cannons knock Peter Parker off the Pegasus, then they turn to face something in the sky as all the cannons start shooting at something.]

SAM: What the hell is this?

TONY STARK: F.R.I.D.A.Y., what are they firing at?

F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Something just entered the upper atmosphere.

[A bright light of thundering energy comes surging down as Carol Danvers flies through the ship, and it results in an explosion and the ship crash-landing in the lake]

ROCKET: Oh, yeah!

STEVE ROGERS: Danvers, we need an assist here.

[Cut to Scott finally activating the Quantum Tunnel. Then cut to Carol Danvers landing near Peter, who is on the ground, weirdly hugging the gauntlet with his body.]

PETER PARKER: Hi. I'm– Peter Parker.

CAROL DANVERS: Hey, Peter Parker. You got something for me?

PETER PARKER: [Gets up and passes her the gauntlet] I don't know how you're gonna get it through all that.

[Wanda arrives, Valkyrie flying on her Pegasus as she arrives.]

WANDA MAXIMOFF: Don't worry.

OKOYE: She's got help.

[Pepper lands next to Okoye, followed by Mantis, Shuri, the Wasp, 2014 Gamora and Nebula. Thanos' army charges while the women help Carol Danvers go through the Outriders, Sakaarans and Chitauri. 2014 Gamora takes out a gorilla, while Okoye takes out Corvus Glaive. Wanda and Valkyrie destroy two leviathans. Carol Danvers then starts flying towards the van with the Gauntlet, flying past enemies and going through enemy blockades that are in her way with ease. Thanos, seeing this, starts running to Carol Danvers, but is stopped by Pepper, Shuri and The Wasp, who blast him backwards. Thanos, after seeing Carol Danvers fly past him, throws his double sword at the van, destroying it and the quantum realm tunnel, throwing Carol Danvers backwards and losing her grip on the Gauntlet, which falls to the ground. Doctor Strange steadies the water after the explosion. In the final brawl for the Stark Gauntlet, Stark moves one of Thanos' enemies aside and sees the Gauntlet. He runs to get it, but sees Thanos, who Stark tackles. Thanos smacks Stark away, knocking him out. Then Thor arrives with Stormbreaker and 2013 Mjolnir in an attempt to pin Thanos' arm down, with assistance from Captain America. However, Thanos overpowers them and knocks them both out. After picking up the Gauntlet, Carol Danvers arrives, punching away at Thanos while he is holding the Gauntlet. She keeps punching him, but Thanos grabs her by the arm and flings her away. Thanos puts on the gauntlet, gamma radiation from the stones eating at him as he tries to snap, but Carol Danvers arises again, and stops his fingers from snapping, opening up his hand similar to what Captain America did in Avengers: Infinity War. Thanos headbutts her, but it does nothing. Just as Carol Danvers is gaining the upper hand by rising up and forcing Thanos onto his knees, Thanos pulls the Power Stone out of the Gauntlet and uses it in his free hand to hit Carol Danvers away. Stark looks in question at Strange, who simply raises one finger, reminding him that the one win over Thanos he foresaw is now at risk. Or is it? Stark nods. Thanos puts the Power Stone back into the Gauntlet, yelling from the gamma radiation coursing through him, until Stark makes one last attack on Thanos, pulling on the Gauntlet before Thanos punches him away.]

THANOS (2014): I am– inevitable.

[Thanos snaps his fingers, but nothing happens except a metallic "clink." He sees the Infinity Stones are missing. Tony has the stones on his own gauntlet, the gamma radiation coursing through him, to Thanos' shock.]

TONY STARK: And I– am– Iron Man.

[Tony snaps his fingers with a loud "CLANG" and a blinding flash of white. Rocket fires at a Leviathan and before it devours him, it crumbles into ash. The Black Order starts crumbling to ash. T'Challa and Quill look around in surprise; Steve looks on in exhaustion, knowing that they have won. Thanos, in horror, looks around and sees his entire army disintegrate. He looks at Steve, who just stares at him. Thanos sits down and mourns before slowly being erased from existence himself.]

[Cut back to Tony. The power of the gauntlet raw energy has left his entire right side fatally injured. He stumbles for a bit before his body collapses besides a pile of debris. Rhodey soon flies in and goes up to Tony to see his long time colleague and friend fading away. He bows his head, knowing the damage was done. Peter Parker soon flies in and sees Tony collapsed on the ground.]

PETER PARKER: Mr. Stark? [He runs up to his fallen mentor. Tears start to form in his eyes] Hey– Mr. Stark? Can you hear me? It's Peter. Hey. We won, Mr. Stark– We won, Mr. Stark. We won. You did it, sir. You did it. [He kneels]

[Tony is unresponsive. Peter breaks down and hugs him.]

PETER PARKER: I'm sorry– Tony–

[Peter is gently led aside to grieve. Pepper Potts sits in front of the fading Iron Man.]

PEPPER POTTS: Hey.

[Tony is barely able to move his head, but manages to look Pepper in the eyes]

TONY STARK: [quietly] Hey, Pep..

[Pepper places her hand on Tony's Arc Reactor and Tony rests his hand on hers. Pepper takes a good look at Tony's fatal injuries.]

[pepper kneels]

PEPPER POTTS: F.R.I.D.A.Y.?

F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Life functions critical.

[Tony smiles with tears in his eyes.]

PEPPER POTTS: Tony. Look at me. [She makes sure Tony gets a long look at her smiling face] We're gonna be okay. You can rest now.

[With that acknowledgement, Tony's arc reactor flickers off for good. Pepper can no longer contain her grief and starts crying on his shoulder. Tony Stark, Iron Man, Earth's Best Defender, died. All the heroes gather, and kneel in honor of Tony.]

[We cut to a montage showing reunions and celebrations. At Clint Barton's farm, he joyfully reunites with his family. At Peter Parker's school, Peter and Ned meet in the hallways. They share a handshake before giving each other a heartfelt hug. In San Francisco, Scott Lang watches fireworks with Cassie Lang and Hope Van Dyne. In Wakanda, T'Cahlla, Shuri, and Ramonda oversee the celebrations from their balcony. Over all this, we hear Tony's voice narrating.]

TONY STARK (voiceover): Everybody wants a happy ending, right? But it doesn't always roll that way. Maybe this time. I'm hoping if you play this back, it's in celebration. I hope families are reunited, I hope we get it back, and something like a normal version of the planet has been restored. If there ever was such a thing. God, what a world. Universe, now. If you told me ten years ago that we weren't alone, let alone, you know, to this extent, I mean, I wouldn't have been surprised. But come on, you know? The epic forces of darkness and light that have come into play. And, for better or worse, that's the reality Morgan's gonna have to find a way to grow up in.

[Cut to the Stark household. Pepper, Morgan, Happy Hogan, and Rhodey all watch Tony's holographic message being projected from his Iron Man helmet. Tony is sitting down recording the message.]

TONY STARK (hologram): So I thought I'd probably better record a little greeting... In the case of an untimely death on my part. I mean, not that, death at any time isn't untimely. This time travel thing that we're gonna try and pull off tomorrow, it's– it's got me scratching my head about the survivability of it all. That's the thing. Then again, that's the hero gig. Part of the journey is the end. [Tony suddenly gets up walking towards his camera] What am I even trippin' for? Everything's gonna work out exactly the way it's supposed to. [He leans down and smiles. He is looking straight at Morgan] I love you 3,000.

[The message ends and the hologram cuts out.]

[Cut to outside the cottage. Pepper carries a wreath out of the house to an audience waiting outside for the intimate funeral. She lays the wreath on the lake. On top of the wreath is Tony's first arc reactor which Pepper had framed with the words "Proof That Tony Stark Has a Heart" back in 2008. The camera slowly pans to see Pepper, Morgan, Happy Hogan, & Rhodey, all being joined by Steve Rogers, Peter Parker, May Parker, Thor, Bruce Banner, Doctor Strange, Wong, Scott Lang, Hope Van Dyne, Janet Van Dyne, Hank Pym, Peter Quill, Nebula, Rocket, Teenage Groot, Drax, Mantis, T'Challa, Okoye, Shuri, Clint Barton & his family, Wanda Maximoff, Bucky Barnes, Sam Wilson, Harley Keener, Secretary Ross, Maria Hill, Carol Danvers, and Nick Fury, silently watching the wreath float away.]

[Cut to Clint and Wanda, standing by the riverside shortly afterwards.]

CLINT: You know, I wish there was a way– that I could let her know. That we won. [Looks over to Wanda.] We did it.

WANDA MAXIMOFF: She knows– They both do.

[Clint gives her a side hug and Wanda reciprocates.]

[scene cuts to Happy and Morgan.]

HAPPY: How you doing, Squirt?

MORGAN STARK: Good.

HAPPY: You good? Okay. You hungry?

MORGAN STARK: Mm. Hm.

HAPPY: What do you want?

MORGAN STARK: Cheeseburgers.

HAPPY: You know your dad liked cheeseburgers? I'm gonna get you all the cheeseburgers you want.

MORGAN STARK: Okay.

[Following the funeral for Tony, we cut to Thor and Valkyrie in New Asgard.]

VALKYRIE: So, when can we expect you back?

THOR: Um– about that–

VALKYRIE: Thor. Your people need a king.

THOR: No, they already have one.

VALKYRIE: That's funny. You're being serious?

[Thor nods his head]

THOR: It's time for me to be who I am rather than who I'm supposed to be. But you, you're a leader. That's who you are.

VALKYRIE: You know I'd make a lot of changes around here.

THOR: I'm counting on it. Your Majesty.

[Thor offers Valkyrie a farewell handshake]

VALKYRIE: What will you do?

THOR: I'm not sure. For the first time in a thousand years, I– I have no path. I do have a ride, though.

[Camera pans to the Benatar parked on the cliff]

ROCKET: Move it or lose it, hairbag.

[scene cuts to Quill searching for Gamora on the screen as Thor walks in he closes it]

THOR: Well, here we are. Tree! Good to see you. Well– [Thor removes his shades and taps Quill on the shoulder] The Asgardians of the Galaxy, back together again. Where to first? [Thor touches the screens map to pick their destination]

QUILL: Hey, just so you know, this is my ship still. I'm in charge.

THOR: I know. I know. Of course, you are. Of course.

QUILL: See, you say of course, but then you touch the map. It makes you think that maybe you didn't realize I was in charge.

THOR: Quail– you– that– that's your own–

QUILL: Quail?

THOR: –insecurities in there. Okay? I'm merely trying to be of service and assisting.

QUILL: It's Quill.

THOR: That's what I said.

DRAX: You should fight one another for the honor of leadership.

NEBULA: Sounds fair.

[Quill looks around]

QUILL: It's not necessary.

THOR: It's not.

QUILL: Okay?

ROCKET: I got some blasters, unless you guys wanna use knives.

MANTIS: [enthusiastically] Oooh, yes. Please, use knives.

DRAX: Yeah, knives.

GROOT: I am Groot.

[Both Thor and Quill laugh but Quill tries to laugh harder]

QUILL: Not necessary...

THOR: There shall be no knifing one another. Everybody knows who's in charge.

QUILL: [glances at Thor] Me, right?

THOR: Yes, you. Of course. Of course. Of course.

[Scene cuts to Bruce, Steve, Sam and Bucky at the funeral]

BRUCE BANNER: Now, remember– You have to return the stones to the exact moment you got them. Or you're gonna open up a bunch of nasty alternative realities.

STEVE ROGERS: Don't worry, Bruce. Clip all the branches.

BRUCE BANNER: You know, I tried. When I had the gauntlet, the stones, I really tried to bring her back. [Looks at Steve] I miss her, man.

STEVE ROGERS: Me, too.

Sam Wilson: You know, if you want, I can come with you.

STEVE ROGERS: You're a good man, Sam. This one's on me, though.

[Steve goes over to Bucky]

STEVE ROGERS: Don't do anything stupid 'till I get back.

BUCKY BARNES: How can I? You're taking all the stupid with you.

[They both hug each other]

BUCKY BARNES: Gonna miss you, Buddy.

STEVE ROGERS: It's gonna be okay, Buck.

[Steve goes over to the Quantum portal and dons the Quantum suit]

Sam Wilson: How long is this gonna take?

BRUCE BANNER: For him? As long as he needs. For us? Five seconds.

[Steve picks up Mjolnir (2013)]

BRUCE BANNER: Ready, Cap? Alright. We'll meet
you back here, okay?

STEVE ROGERS: You bet.

BRUCE BANNER: Going quantum. Three, two, one–

[Steve disappears into the Quantum portal]

BRUCE BANNER: And returning in, five, four, three, two, one–

[Steve doesn't appear on the pad. Bruce looks around the equipment]

Sam Wilson: Where is he?

BRUCE BANNER: I don't know. He blew right by his time stamp. He should be here.

[Bucky turns around from the pad]

Sam Wilson: Well, get him back.

BRUCE BANNER: I'm trying.

Sam Wilson: Get him the hell back!

BRUCE BANNER: Hey, I said, I'm trying!

BUCKY BARNES: Sam...

[Sam walks toward Bucky. Sam, Bucky, and Bruce see old looking Steve sitting on a log. Sam and Bucky go near him.]

BUCKY BARNES: Go ahead.

[Bucky has a smile forming and looks over to Sam. He walks towards the old man and instantly recognizes the now-elderly Steve Rogers]

Sam Wilson: Cap?

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: Hi, Sam.

[Old Steve looks over to Sam]

Sam Wilson: So did something go wrong, or did something go right?

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: Well, after I put the stones back, I thought, maybe I'll try some of that life Tony was telling me to get.

Sam Wilson: How'd that work out for you?

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: It was beautiful.

Sam Wilson: I'm happy for you. Truly.

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: Thank you.

Sam Wilson: Only thing bumming me out is the fact I have to live in a world without Captain America.

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: Oh, That reminds me. [brings out his shield.] Try it on.

[Sam look over to Bucky, who nods, and Sam holds Steve's shield.]

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: How does it feel?

Sam Wilson: Like it's someone else's.

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: It isn't.

[Sam tries to hold back tears]

Sam Wilson: Thank you. I'll do my best.

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: That's why it's yours. [shakes Sam's hand]

Sam Wilson: [seeing elderly Steve's wedding ring] You wanna tell me about her?

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: [smiling] No. No, I don't think I will. [Last lines]

[In the final scenes, Steve has time traveled back to the 1940s to be with Peggy Carter. They are seen dancing to "It's Been a Long, Long Time" in their home, and they end with a kiss.] – "It's Been a Long, Long Time" performed by Harry James and His Orchestra, sung by Kitty Kallen, written by Sammy Cahn and Jule Styne

[In the very end of the film, the sound of hammering metal is heard in the background. A dedication to Tony Stark and a callback to the first Iron Man]

[Closing Title: Marvel Studios]

[Screen Title: Distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures]

The End.

